Yakoruda
Yakoruda -LRB- -RRB- is a Bulgarian town located in the southwestern part of the country .
A part of the Blagoevgrad Province , it is the seat of the municipality which is the north-easternmost in the province .
The town lies in the Rhodope Mountains , along the Mesta River , 26 km west of the town of Velingrad .
Yakoruda was proclaimed a town on 9 September 1964 , having previously been officially classified as a village .
A plurality of the residents are Muslim Bulgarians -LRB- Pomaks -RRB- , the rest being for the most part Eastern Orthodox .
Notable natives are Survivor BG season one runner-up Ahmed Shuganov and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Emiliya Maslarova .
Municipality
Yakoruda is the seat of Yakoruda municipality -LRB- part of Blagoevgrad Province -RRB- , which includes the following 8 places :
Honour
Yakoruda Glacier on Greenwich Island in the South Shetland Islands , Antarctica is named after Yakoruda .
External links
Yakoruda municipality website
Unofficial website

Hilary Duff
Hilary Erhard Duff -LRB- born September 28 , 1987 -RRB- is an American actress and singer-songwriter .
After working in local theater plays and television commercials in her childhood , Duff gained fame for playing the title role in the television series Lizzie McGuire .
Duff went on to have a film career ; her most commercially successful movies include Cheaper by the Dozen -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , The Lizzie McGuire Movie -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , and A Cinderella Story -LRB- 2004 -RRB- .
Duff has expanded her repertoire into pop music , with three RIAA certified Platinum albums and over thirteen million records sold worldwide .
Her first studio album , Metamorphosis -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , was certified triple platinum and she followed it up with two more platinum albums , Hilary Duff -LRB- 2004 -RRB- and Most Wanted -LRB- 2005 -RRB- .
Duff had a musical comeback with the release of her third studio album , Dignity -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , which was certified Gold in August 2007 .
In November 2008 she released another Greatest Hits compilation , Best of Hilary Duff .
She has also launched a clothing line , `` Stuff by Hilary Duff `` , and two exclusive perfume collections with Elizabeth Arden .
Duff and her mother were listed as producers for the movie Material Girls , , her upcoming films include animated comedy Foodfight !
, and independent films Greta , What Goes Up and Stay Cool .
Early life and career
Duff was born in Houston , Texas on September 28 , 1987 .
She is the second child of Susan Colleen -LRB- née Cobb -RRB- , a homemaker and a film producer , and husband Robert Erhard Duff , a partner in a chain of convenience stores , who resides at the family home in Houston to maintain the family 's convenience store business .
She has an elder sister , Haylie Duff , who is also an actress/singer .
Duff 's mother encouraged Hilary to take up acting classes alongside her elder sister , Haylie , which resulted in both girls winning roles in various local theater productions .
At the ages of eight and six , respectively , the Duff sisters participated in the ballet , The Nutcracker Suite with Columbus BalletMet in San Antonio .
The siblings became more enthusiastic about the idea of choosing acting as a profession , and eventually relocated to California with their mother .
Duff 's father stayed at the family home in Houston to take care of their business .
After several years of auditions and meetings , the Duff sisters were cast in various television commercials .
Career
Early work
Duff 's early career was marked by playing minor roles , starting off with an uncredited appearance in Hallmark Entertainment 's western miniseries True Women in 1997 .
She also served as an uncredited extra , in writer-director Willard Carroll 's ensemble dramedy Playing by Heart in 1998 .
Her first major role was as a star of the 1998 film Casper Meets Wendy , a direct-to-video sequel to Casper in which she plays the young witch Wendy , who encounters the animated character Casper .
The film was released to mostly unenthusiastic reviews .
In 1999 , Duff appeared in a supporting role in the television film The Soul Collector , which was based on a Kathleen Kane novel .
Duff won a Young Artist Award for `` Best Performance in a TV Movie or Pilot -LRB- Supporting Young Actress -RRB- '' for her role in the movie .
Duff 's first serious rise to fame came when she was cast as one of the children in the pilot episode of the NBC sitcom Daddio in 2000 .
Her co-star Michael Chiklis , stated , `` After working with her the first day , I remember saying to my wife , ` this young girl is going to be a movie star ' .
She was completely at ease with herself and comfortable in her own skin . ''
Duff was dropped from the cast of Daddio before it being aired , which made her reluctant to pursue her acting career further .
However , her manager and mother urged her on , and a week later she successfully auditioned for the children 's television series Lizzie McGuire , where she portrayed the title role of a clumsy but an average middle school girl .
The show focused on her growth into teenhood .
2001–2003
Lizzie McGuire , which first aired on the Disney Channel on January 12 , 2001 , was a ratings hit , drawing in 2.3 million viewers per episode .
Her participation in the show led to her becoming highly popular among children between the ages of seven and fourteen , with critic Richard Huff of the New York Daily News calling her `` a 2002 version of Annette Funicello `` .
After Duff fulfilled her 65 episode contract with Lizzie McGuire , Disney considered continuing the franchise further , through films and a prime-time television series to be broadcast on ABC .
However , the plans failed because Duff 's representatives said she was not being paid enough for the proposed series .
Duff also starred in the Disney Channel television film Cadet Kelly -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , which became the network 's most watched program in its 19-year history .
In the movie , she plays a free-spirited girl who enrolls in a military school and finds it hard to adjust to its strict and disciplined environment .
Duff 's first role in a theatrical motion picture was in Human Nature -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , an independent film shot around the time of the start of Lizzie McGuire .
It was first showcased at the Cannes and Sundance film festivals .
The film , written by Charlie Kaufman and directed by Michel Gondry , follows a female naturalist , played by Patricia Arquette .
Duff played the younger version of Arquette 's character .
The same year , Duff recorded a cover version of Brooke McClymont ` s `` I Can't Wait `` for the Lizzie McGuire soundtrack , and `` The Tiki Tiki Tiki Room `` for the first DisneyMania compilation album .
Her first album was Santa Claus Lane -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , a collection of Christmas songs that included duets with her sister Haylie , Lil ' Romeo and Christina Milian .
Accompanied by the Disney Channel-only single `` Tell Me a Story -LRB- About the Night Before -RRB- `` , it peaked at 154 on the U.S. Billboard 200 album chart and was certified gold .
The track `` Santa Claus Lane `` was included on the soundtrack to The Santa Clause 2 and the single , `` What Christmas Should Be '' , was used in Cheaper by the Dozen .
Duff sang several tracks for soundtrack to The Lizzie McGuire Movie , which included `` I Can't Wait `` and `` Why Not `` , the latter peaking at # 14 in Australia .
The soundtrack to The Lizzie McGuire Movie went platinum in 2003 .
In 2003 , Duff received her first major role in a feature film when she was cast alongside Frankie Muniz in Agent Cody Banks .
The film received positive reviews and was successful enough to spawn a sequel , in which Duff did not participate .
The same year , Duff reprised her role as Lizzie McGuire for The Lizzie McGuire Movie , which exceeded box office expectations , earning $ 42.6 million at the US box office and $ 55 million worldwide .
It received mixed reviews , with certain critics calling it `` an unabashed promotion of Duff’s image , just as Crossroads was for Spears '' , while other reviews were generally positive and encouraging .
Later that year , Duff played one of the 12 children of Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt in the family film Cheaper by the Dozen , which remains her highest grossing film to date .
She reprised her role in the sequel to the film called Cheaper by the Dozen 2 -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , which failed to be as successful as the original film and was panned by critics .
Duff 's first full-length studio album , Metamorphosis -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , reached number one on the U.S. and Canadian charts and had sold over 3.7 million copies by May 2005 .
The lead single , `` So Yesterday `` -LRB- co-written and produced by The Matrix -RRB- , was a top ten hit in several countries , its follow-up , the Laguna Beach theme song `` Come Clean `` , became Duff 's first top forty U.S. hit and reached the top twenty in UK , Australia and New Zealand .
The video was nominated in the category of Best Pop Video at the 2004 MTV Video Music Awards .
The third single , `` Little Voice `` , was not released in the U.S. and was a minor hit in Canada and Australia .
In late 2003 , Duff embarked on her first concert tour , the Metamorphosis Tour , and later the Most Wanted Tour .
Most shows scheduled in the major cities were completely sold out .
Duff also made several guest appearances in television shows ; her first as a sick child in the medical drama Chicago Hope in March 2000 .
In a 2003 episode of George Lopez , she had a role as a makeup salesperson ; she later reappeared in the show in 2005 as Kenzie , a feminist poet friend of the character Carmen -LRB- Masiela Lusha -RRB- .
In 2003 , she acted opposite her sister Haylie in American Dreams , while in 2005 , she played a classmate and idolizer of the title character of Joan of Arcadia .
2004–2006
In January 2004 , the second DisneyMania disc , DisneyMania 2 , was released and featured a duet , `` The Siamese Cat Song '' with her sister .
Another song , `` Circle of Life `` , featured Duff and other Disney Channel stars .
Duff and her sister recorded a cover of The Go-Gos ` `` Our Lips Are Sealed `` for the soundtrack to A Cinderella Story , which also included two other songs by Duff .
The video for `` Our Lips Are Sealed '' was popular on MTV 's Total Request Live , but the song failed to chart on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 .
Duff 's second full-length album was the self-titled Hilary Duff in which she co-wrote some songs .
She described the album as more `` personal '' and having a `` rock feel '' than Metamorphosis .
It was released on her seventeenth birthday -LRB- in September 2004 -RRB- and debuted at # 2 in the U.S. and at # 1 in Canada .
The album sold over 1.5 million copies in the U.S. in eight months , but its only U.S. single , `` Fly `` , failed to chart on the Hot 100. ``
Fly '' reached the top forty in Australia , where the album produced a second top forty single , `` Someone 's Watching over Me `` , which was the theme song of the film Raise Your Voice .
Duff contributed the song `` -LRB- I'll Give -RRB- Anything but Up ! '' for the 2004 album Marlo Thomas & Friends : Thanks & Giving All Year Long -LRB- 2004 -RRB- .
In 2004 , Duff starred in the romantic comedy A Cinderella Story .
Though the reviews were mostly negative , the film went on to become a moderate box office hit , and critics were impressed by Duff 's performance .
A Cinderella Story earned $ 70,067,909 worldwide and was a commercial success .
Later that year , she starred in the film Raise Your Voice , her first role in a drama film .
While some critics praised Duff for appearing in a more mature and serious role than her previous films , the film itself was heavily panned .
Several reviews were indifferent towards her acting performance and were particularly harsh towards Duff 's vocals , with critics pointing out what appeared to be her digitally enhanced voice .
The film received a lukewarm response at the box office , and is Duff 's least successful film commercially , with total theater receipts of $ 14 million .
The same year , Duff received her first Razzie nomination for worst actress for her roles in Raise Your Voice and A Cinderella Story .
In 2005 , Duff starred in The Perfect Man in which she played the eldest daughter of a divorced woman -LRB- Heather Locklear -RRB- .
The film received mostly harsh reviews and did not live up to box office expectations , grossing $ 19,770,475 globally .
In the same year , Duff was again nominated for a Razzie Award , for The Perfect Man and Cheaper by the Dozen 2 .
The 2006 satirical comedy Material Girls , in which she co-starred with her sister Haylie , was also not well received by critics , grossing only $ 16,907,561 worldwide .
The film , directed by Martha Coolidge and co-produced by Madonna 's independent film production company Maverick Entertainment , starred the Duff sisters as wealthy siblings who must fight to reclaim their fortune following a scandal .
Duff along with her sister Haylie , received two more nominations for Razzie awards for their role in the film .
Duff 's third album , Most Wanted -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , comprised her favorite tracks from her previous two albums , remixes , and new songs inspired by pop-rock musicians such as The Killers and Muse .
In an appearance on Total Request Live , Duff stated that it was not a greatest hits album , but that her label told her it was time to release a new album .
She had more creative control over Most Wanted compared to her previous releases , co-writing the new material with producers Joel Madden and his brother , Benji , both members of Good Charlotte .
The lead single , `` Wake Up `` , became Duff 's highest peaking single on the U.S. Hot 100 at the time , and its video received heavy rotation on MTV .
The video for the second single , `` Beat of My Heart `` , was also popular , but the single itself did not chart in the U.S .
The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and became her third number one debut in Canada .
An Italy-only compilation , 4Ever , was released in 2006 .
Duff recorded new songs for her movie , Material Girls , which included a Timbaland -produced cover version of Madonna 's `` Material Girl `` with her sister .
Duff poses with a fan in Fayetteville , North Carolina , before her annual concert for military families .
By 2005 , Duff appeared to have lost weight , leading the media to speculate that she had developed an eating disorder , though Duff denied this claim .
Duff was interviewed on the Australian current affair show Today Tonight and stated that she lost weight by leading a more active lifestyle .
Later in 2006 , an article on Digital Spy stated that Duff had slimmed down to a U.S. size zero because of media reports suggesting she had gained fifteen pounds .
She later stated that she had been feeling the pressure to be thin , because she is perceived in the media to be either too fat or too thin .
Duff called this `` judgmental '' and `` mean '' .
In June 2006 , when asked about her then-boyfriend Joel Madden , a native of Waldorf , Maryland , in an interview with Elle , Duff replied , `` He 's very real , like , he 's from a pretty ghetto place in Maryland ...
I like that '' .
Duff 's `` ghetto '' comments sparked a mixture of mild offense and bemusement from residents of the Waldorf area , as the suburban , mostly middle-class town did not fall into the traditional impoverished inner city concept of a ghetto .
Duff later claimed she was referring not to Waldorf , but actually a section of Baltimore where Madden lived briefly as a young adult .
In late 2006 Duff took legal action against an alleged stalker and his roommate .
On November 3 , 2006 , Duff 's stalker , Maksim Miakovsky , was arrested for threatening to kill her .
He was booked on charges of making criminal threats and stalking .
According to legal papers filed by Duff , Miakovsky came to the U.S. `` for the sole purpose of meeting and becoming romantically involved with Ms. Duff '' .
Miakovsky was being held on $ 200,000 bail at the Manhattan Beach jail .
He was arraigned on November 7 , 2006 .
On January 19 , 2007 , Miakovsky was sentenced to 117 days in jail and five years probation after pleading no contest to the charges .
2007–present
Duff at the premiere of War , Inc. at the Tribeca Film Festival in April 2008
During her Still Most Wanted tour , she performed in Guadalajara , Mexico , where she filmed a brief appearance on the soap opera Rebelde .
She was also the guest star on The Andy Milonakis Show for its third season premiere in 2007 .
In April 2008 , Duff was offered the lead role of Annie Mills in the CW Network 's Beverly Hills , 90210 spinoff , but she turned it down because she was more interested in looking for projects outside the teen genre .
She is also a model signed to IMG Models New York .
Hilary Duff performing in Toronto on MuchMusic in 2007 .
Duff co-wrote the material for her third studio album Dignity , along with Kara DioGuardi , who co-produced the album with Rhett Lawrence , Tim & Bob and Richard `` Humpty '' Vission .
Duff stated that compared to her previous music , it is `` more dancey `` and makes use of more real instruments .
She said , `` I don't know exactly how to explain what we're doing , but it 's fun and funky and different , something new for me .
It 's really cool '' .
She also described the album 's sound as `` a little less pop-rock and more electronic -sounding '' .
The first single , `` Play with Fire `` , became a minor club hit but failed to chart in the U.S. ; the second single , `` With Love `` , was more successful , becoming Duff 's biggest U.S. Hot 100 hit and topping the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play chart .
The music video for `` With Love '' was used as a commercial for Duff 's first fragrance , With Love ...
Hilary Duff , which was launched in September 2006 ; the video reached number one on Total Request Live .
Initially slated for release in late 2006 , the album was released in April 2007 in North America and earlier elsewhere .
It reached the top five in the U.S. and Canada , the top twenty in Australia and the top forty in the UK .
The Dignity tour began in mid-2007 .
A third single , `` Stranger `` , was a number one U.S. club hit .
In late 2005 , the Duff sisters lent their voices to the computer animated comedy Foodfight !
, which is to be distributed by Lions Gate Entertainment , but has an unscheduled release date .
The director of the film , Larry Kasanoff , said that he was `` absolutely thrilled to have the Duff sisters as part of the cast '' .
Duff also starred opposite John Cusack in War , Inc. which was released in theatres in Los Angeles and Manhattan , New York on May 23 , 2008 .
Within a month of its release , it was expanded to several more theaters around the US .
However , the film did not do well commercially , grossing only $ 580,862 domestically .
On September 7 , 2007 , Duff confirmed on Much On Demand , that she would be filming two independent films Greta , and What Goes Up .
Both movies were filmed in late 2007 and are due to be released in 2009 .
In June 2008 , Duff joined the cast of the Polish brothers comedy Stay Cool .
She co-starred alongside Winona Ryder , Mark Polish , Sean Astin , Chevy Chase and Jon Cryer .
In the film , she portrayed the character of Shasta O'Neil , described as a sexy high school senior .
The movie was filmed during July and August 2008 in Santa Clarita , California , and the film is scheduled for release in 2009 .
In January 2008 , videos of Duff surfaced on YouTube , which showed her singing into her microphone at her concert in Mexico , but her voice was inaudible , leading viewers to believe that she was lip-syncing .
Duff 's representative defended her saying , `` She was not lip-synching .
It was faulty equipment .
There was no sound coming out , but she was singing '' .
He also added that Duff was not using her regular sound equipment , but instead was using locally provided equipment and that her microphone was inadvertently set on mute for the first few minutes of the performance .
In November 2008 , Duff 's second greatest hits album , Best of Hilary Duff was released and the album 's first single `` Reach Out `` which samples Depeche Mode ` s `` Personal Jesus `` was released in the previous month , the song became Duff 's third # 1 dance hit .
The Best of Hilary Duff album failed to achieve the level of success which Most Wanted had achieved ; the album peaked at # 125 on the charts .
Duff thereafter announced that she would be leaving her record label Hollywood Records after six years of service .
She later announced to MTV that she would begin work on her new album in December 2008 .
The same month , Duff signed a pact with NBC to star in a new series , thus signalling her return to the television medium .
It was later announced that Duff will be the lead in a new Rob Morrow-produced half-hour comedy based on the true story of Kathleen Holtz , called Barely Legal .
In January 2009 , it was announced that she would star in an indie feature , The Story of Bonnie and Clyde , an adaptation of Bonnie & Clyde .
In April 2009 , Duff began filming Provinces of Night , which is based on a book by the same name written by William Gay .
Duff plays Raven Halfacre , the teenage daughter of a promiscuous , alcoholic mother .
Entrepreneurship
Duff launched her clothing line , `` Stuff by Hilary Duff `` , in March 2004 , with clothes distributed through Target in the United States , Kmart in Australia , Zellers in Canada , and Edgars Stores in South Africa .
The company , initially started as a clothing line , has expanded its business into furniture , fragrances , and jewelry , targeted at the teen and preteen crowd .
In 2007 , the Internet website Stardoll.com previewed Duff 's clothing line to customers by allowing them to dress up a paper doll on the website -LRB- which include Hilary Duff 's own doll -RRB- with the clothes .
In February 2009 , Duff and DKNY Jeans announced their new design partnership and the launch of their collaborative apparel line .
Duff co-designed a collection of special pieces with DKNY Jeans brand called `` Femme '' for DKNY Jeans .
The clothing line will debut in fine department and specialty stores nationwide in August 2009 .
Playmates Toys released a celebrity doll of her in 2004 .
In late 2006 , Mattel released a Hilary Duff Barbie doll .
As a fashion designer , she had designed clothes for Barbie dolls in the past and with the release of her doll , she joined Reese Witherspoon , Beyonce Knowles and Lucille Ball who have their own celebrity-dolls .
In September 2006 , Duff released her perfume , `` With Love ...
Hilary Duff `` , which was distributed by the Elizabeth Arden company .
The perfume was initially sold only in Macy 's in the U.S. and soon it was being sold in other regions like Japan and Canada .
In 2007 , Duff announced that she will be releasing a summer version of the perfume titled , `` Wrapped With Love '' .
It was released in January 2008 , and a Spring Gift Set version was released in time for Valentines Day .
Duff and her pet dog Lola made an appearance in the Electronic Arts game The Sims 2 : Pets , which was released on October 2006 .
In console versions of the game , Duff 's character visits public areas and allows the players to let their Sims socialize with her and Lola .
Animal rights ' organisation , `` Animal welfare league '' have criticised Duff and celebrities such as Paris Hilton and Jessica Simpson for displaying their dogs as fashion accessories rather than pets .
Personal life
In a June 2006 interview with Elle magazine , Duff was quoted as saying : `` ... -LRB- virginity -RRB- is definitely something I like about myself .
It doesn't mean I haven't thought about sex , because everyone I know has had it and you want to fit in '' .
Duff later told MuchMusic that she did not say the quotes attributed to her in the article and that the subject was `` definitely not something that I would talk about ... ''
She denied the quotes again in a 2008 interview with Maxim magazine .
Duff is involved with various charities , is an animal rights enthusiast and a member of Kids with a Cause .
She also donated $ 250,000 to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina .
In 2005 , she donated over 2.5 million meals to Hurricane Katrina victims in the south .
In August 2006 , Duff traveled to a New Orleans elementary school and worked with USA Harvest to distribute meals .
She has also served on the Advisory Board of the `` Audrey Hepburn Child Benefit Fund '' and the Celebrity Council of `` Kids with a Cause '' .
On October 8 , 2008 , Duff starred in a public service announcement for The Think Before You Speak Campaign by Ad Council and GLSEN , to prevent youth from using anti- LGBT vocabulary , such as the phrase `` That 's so Gay '' .
In 2005 , Duff 's earnings were estimated to be $ 15 million and in December 2007 , Duff was ranked at # 7 in the Forbes `` Top 20 Earners Under 25 '' , with an annual earnings of $ 12 million .
In 2007 , Duff was ranked at # 23 in Maxim 's `` Hot 100 '' list .
In 2008 , Duff was ranked # 7 for the US edition of FHMs `` 100 Sexiest Women in the World '' , while for the UK edition she ranked in at # 8 .
Duff has stated numerous times that she’s a strong animal rights supporter and has commented , when asked what she would be doing if she weren’t a celebrity , `` I always wanted to be a veterinarian when I was younger , but then I figured out that animals actually die there , so that was not the job for me .
Definitely something with kids or animals or something like that . ''
Relationships
Duff appearing at MuchMusic in Canada on April 23 , 2007 to promote her music .
Duff began dating singer Aaron Carter in 2001 .
They met on the sets of Lizzie McGuire , during Carter 's guest appearance in a Christmas episode .
The relationship lasted two years .
It was reported that Carter left Duff for Lindsay Lohan , but soon broke up with Lohan and resumed dating Duff .
Carter later stated that he also cheated on Duff with her best friend , and that Duff `` got her heart broken '' and he was `` sorry '' for his actions .
On March 23 , 2007 , Claymation facsimiles of Duff and Lohan appeared on the celebrity wrestling series Celebrity Death Match episode `` Where 's Lohan ? `` .
Duff and Lindsay Lohan were later reported to have been involved in a `` feud '' with each other over their relationship with Carter .
In 2007 , Duff and Lohan had reconciled .
Lohan attended the release party for Duff 's album Dignity and Duff told People magazine that she thought Lohan was `` fun '' and `` a nice girl '' .
Duff began dating Good Charlotte singer Joel Madden in 2004 .
After a long period of tabloid speculation , Duff 's mother Susan announced their relationship in a June 2005 interview for Seventeen magazine .
Duff and Madden broke up in November 2006 .
The same year , Duff 's parents separated after 22 years of marriage , due to infidelity on the part of her father .
She wrote about the pain caused by the separation in her songs `` Stranger `` and `` Gypsy Woman `` .
Duff began dating NHL player Mike Comrie in 2007 .
She frequently attends his games .
Comrie bought Duff a Mercedes-Benz for her 20th birthday .
Filmography
Discography
Studio albums
2003 : Metamorphosis
2004 : Hilary Duff
2007 : Dignity
Other albums
2002 : Santa Claus Lane -LRB- Christmas album -RRB-
2005 : Most Wanted -LRB- Compilation album -RRB-
2006 : 4Ever -LRB- Compilation album -RRB- - released in Italy only .
2008 : Best of Hilary Duff -LRB- Compilation album -RRB-
Awards
Further reading
References
External links
Hollywood Records

Dardanelles
The Dardanelles , a long narrow strait dividing the Balkans -LRB- Europe -RRB- along the Gallipoli peninsula from Asia Minor .
A map depicting the location of the Dardanelles -LRB- yellow -RRB- relative to the Bosporus and the Sea of Marmara .
Location of the Dardanelles is boxed in red .
The Dardanelles -LRB- , -RRB- , formerly known as the Hellespont -LRB- Greek : Ελλήσποντος , Hellespontos -RRB- , is a narrow strait in northwestern Turkey connecting the Aegean Sea to the Sea of Marmara .
It is one of the Turkish Straits , along with its counterpart the Bosporus .
It is located at approximately .
The strait is 61 kilometers -LRB- 38 mi -RRB- long but only 1.2 to 6 kilometers -LRB- 0.75 to 4 mi -RRB- wide , averaging 55 meters -LRB- 180 ft -RRB- deep with a maximum depth of 82 meters -LRB- 300 ft -RRB- .
Water flows in both directions along the strait , from the Sea of Marmara to the Aegean via a surface current and in the opposite direction via an undercurrent .
Like the Bosporus , it separates Europe -LRB- in this case the Gallipoli peninsula -RRB- and the mainland of Asia .
The strait is an International waterway , and together with the Bosporus , Dardanelles connects the Black Sea to the Mediterranean Sea .
The Turkish name Çanakkale Boğazı is derived from the major city adjoining the strait , Çanakkale -LRB- which takes its name from its famous castles ; kale means `` castle '' -RRB- .
The name Dardanelles derives from Dardania , an ancient land on the Asian shore of the strait .
History
The Dardanelles as seen from space .
The strait has long had a strategic role in history .
The ancient city of Troy was located near the western entrance of the strait and the strait 's Asiatic shore was the focus of the Trojan War .
It was also the scene of the legendary Greek story of Hero and Leander .
The Persian army of Xerxes I and later the Greek army of Alexander the Great crossed the Dardanelles in opposite directions to invade each other 's lands , in 480 BC and 334 BC respectively .
The Dardanelles were vital to the defense of Constantinople during the Byzantine period , and since the 14th century they have almost continuously been controlled by the Turks .
Historic map of Dardanelles by Piri Reis .
Gaining control or special access to the strait became a key foreign policy goal of the Russian Empire during the 19th century .
During the Napoleonic Wars , Russia—supported by Great Britain in the Dardanelles Operation — blockaded the straits in 1807 .
Following the Ottoman Empire ` s defeat in the Russo-Turkish War of 1828-1829 , in 1833 Russia pressured Turkey to sign the Treaty of Hunkiar Iskelesi —which required the straits to be closed to warships of non-Black Sea powers at Russia 's request .
That would have effectively given Russia a free hand in the Black Sea .
That treaty alarmed the losers , who were concerned that the consequences of potential Russian expansionism in the Black Sea and Mediterranean regions could conflict with their own possessions and economic interest in the regions .
At the London Straits Convention in July 1841 , the United Kingdom , France , Austria , and Prussia pressured Russia to agree that only Turkish warships could traverse the Dardanelles in peacetime .
The United Kingdom and France subsequently sent their fleets through the straits to attack Crimea during the Crimean War in 1853—but this was done as allies of the Ottoman Empire .
That convention was formally reaffirmed by the Congress of Paris in 1856 , following the Russian defeat in the Crimean War .
It remained technically in force into the 20th and 21st centuries .
Dardanelles ' view from a ship .
In 1915 , the western Allies sent a massive invasion force of British , Indian , Australian , and New Zealander troops to attempt to open up the strait .
At the battle of Gallipoli , Turkish troops trapped the Allies on the beaches of the Gallipoli peninsula .
The Battle of Gallipoli did damage the career of Sir Winston Churchill , then the First Lord of the Admiralty , who eagerly promoted the use of Royal Navy sea power to force open the straits .
The straits were mined by the Turks to prevent Allied ships from penetrating them , but in minor actions , two submarines , one British and one Australian , did succeed in penetrating the minefields .
The British one sunk an obsolete Turkish pre-dreadnought battleship off the Golden Horn of Istanbul .
Sir Ian Hamilton ` s Mediterranean Expeditionary Force was unsuccessful in its attempt to capture the Gallipoli peninsula , and its withdrawal was ordered in January 1916 , after 10 months fighting and more than 200,000 casualties .
Following the war , the 1920 Treaty of Sèvres demilitarized the strait and made it an international territory under the control of the League of Nations .
This was amended under the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne which restored the straits to Turkey but allowed all foreign warships to traverse the straits freely .
Turkey rejected the terms of this treaty and subsequently remilitarized the area .
The reversion to this old regime was formalized under the Montreux Convention of July 1936 .
The convention , which is still technically in force today , treats the straits as an international shipping lane , but Turkey retains the right to restrict the naval traffic of non- Black Sea nations -LRB- like Greece , a traditional enemy , or Algeria -RRB- .
During World War II , through February 1945 , when Turkey was neutral for most of the length of the conflict , the Dardanelles were closed to the ships of the belligerent nations .
Turkey declared war on Germany in February 1945 , but it did not employ any offensive forces in that war .
Trivia
The Australian indie rock band Dardanelles is named after the region .
The University of Washington fight song Bow Down to Washington includes the lyrics `` It 's harder to push them over the line than pass the Dardanelles . ''
The Dardanelles is mentioned in the opening song of the musical Sweeney Todd , the Demon Barber of Fleet Street , and in the 2007 film adaptation .
In the song `` No Place Like London '' , the character Anthony Hope sings ,
I have sailed the world , beheld its wonders
From the Dardanelles to the mountains of Peru .
The strait was depicted on the reverse of the Turkish 100 lira banknote of 1938-1942 .
See also
Dardanelles Commission
Battle of the Dardanelles
Action of 26 June 1656
List of maritime incidents in the Turkish Straits
Bosphorus
References
External links
Pictures of the city of Çanakkale
Pictures of Çanakkale - Dardanelles
Photos Of Dardanelles
Canakkale Onsekiz Mart University

Laura Vandervoort
Laura Dianne Vandervoort -LRB- born September 22 , 1984 -RRB- is a Canadian professional actress best known for her role as Kara Zor-El in the television series of Smallville .
Biography
Early life
Laura Dianne Vandervoort was born September 22 , 1984 in Toronto , Canada .
She was involved in several sports -LRB- soccer , karate , basketball , tennis , gymnastics , and baseball -RRB- .
Entering karate at age 7 , she earned a second degree Black Belt from Northern Karate Schools by the age of 16 .
Laura began acting at the age of 13 .
She had always enjoyed entertaining , putting on shows for family and friends .
However , what triggered her interest in the arts was a film called My Girl .
She received the movie from her aunt at a very young age and after watching realized that acting was what was inside her , and this became her focus .
After taking several classes and doing background work on Canadian shows such as Road to Avonlea and Harriet the Spy she got her first speaking role in Canadian children 's series Goosebumps -LRB- three episodes -RRB- and Are You Afraid of the Dark ?
Acting career
Laura Vandervoort at Wizard World Texas 2007.After
commercials and guest stars -LRB- Mutant X , Prom Queen , Twice in a Lifetime , Doc , Sue Thomas : F.B.Eye , Troubled Waters , The Dresden Files -RRB- and a few Disney movies of the week -LRB- Mom 's Got a Date with a Vampire & Alley Cats Strike -RRB- Laura at age 19 landed a lead role as “Sadie Harrison” on the CTV television series Instant Star .
Instant Star ran for four seasons .
In 2006 , Laura shot her first feature titled The Lookout with Jeff Daniels , Joseph Gordon-Levitt , Mathew Goode and Isla Fisher .
It was the directorial debut of screenwriter Scott Frank .
Several other TV appearances such as led Laura into the hands of the CW network , where she landed the coveted role of Clark Kent ` s Kryptonian cousin `` Kara Kent `` -LRB- the woman destined to become Supergirl -RRB- on the hit CW series Smallville .
She was a regular in season seven but was written off in the season finale .
She appeared in the `` Bloodline '' episode for season eight .
No word on whether or not she will appear on any other episodes .
Following the CW and Smallville , Laura then shot the sequel to the feature film Into the Blue titled Into the Blue 2 : The Reef .
In this film Laura is alongside Chris Carmack -LRB- The O.C. -RRB- and Marsha Thomason -LRB- Las Vegas , Lost -RRB- .
Following Into the Blue 2 : The Reef , Laura went directly into filming an independent production titled The Jazzman , which also starred Canadians stars Michael Ironside and Corey Sevier .
On March 22 , 2009 , she has been cast in a new pilot series for the remake of the classic series V to air on ABC in the fall of 2009 , playing the character of Lisa .
Vandervoort was also cast in Riverworld in which she will play the fiancee of a war correspondent who after dying wakes up in a land populated by everyone who has ever lived on Earth .
Filmography
References
External links
Official Website

Audi Le Mans quattro
The Audi Le Mans quattro was a sports car styled concept car , developed by Audi , for presentation at the 2003 Frankfurt Motor Show , as a result of Audi 's three successive wins at the arduous 24 Hours of Le Mans endurance motor race in 2000 , 2001 , and 2002 .
It was the third and final concept car designed by Audi in 2003 , following the Pikes Peak quattro and Nuvolari quattro .
Audi subsidiary quattro GmbH subsequently decided to produce the Audi Le Mans quattro as a production road car , calling it the Audi R8 , naming it after their very successful Audi R8 -LRB- race car -RRB- which won the 24 Hours of Le Mans five times .
Design and technical
The Audi Le Mans Quattro has a number of high-tech features , including the headlights which are composed entirely of light-emitting diodes -LRB- LEDs -RRB- .
The structural framework of the body , the Audi Space Frame -LRB- ASF -RRB- used in the Lamborghini Gallardo , is made entirely of aluminium , while the outer skin is made out of carbon fibre and aluminium .
The car also features an automatic rear spoiler which raises at .
The Le Mans quattro featured the magneto rheological dampers , also installed in the latest Audi TT , which gives the car a firmer and more responsive drive and improved handling characteristics .
In Audi tradition , the car features quattro permanent four-wheel drive to optimise traction and handling .
The Le Mans quattro 's engine was a development of the Gallardo ` s , with the same displacement but utilizing different cylinder heads -LRB- with four valves per cylinder rather than five -RRB- , as well as twin-turbochargers and Fuel Stratified Injection -LRB- FSI -RRB- technology , resulting in the high output of , and of torque .
The gearbox is the six-speed sequential manual transmission used in the Gallardo .
The car showcased various Audi styling cues and technological details , planned to be used in future production Audis .
Specifications
Power :
Torque :
Engine : 5.0L twin-turbocharged V10 with FSI
0–100 km/h : 3.7
Top Speed :
References
External links
Audi corporate website
-
Picture gallery at worldcarfans

Michel Gondry
Michel Gondry , born May 8 , 1963 , is a French film , commercial and music video director and an Academy Award -winning screenwriter .
He is noted for his inventive visual style and manipulation of mise en scène .
Biography
Michel Gondry was born in Versailles , France .
His career as a filmmaker began with creating music videos for the French rock band Oui Oui , in which he also served as a drummer .
The style of his videos for Oui Oui caught the attention of music artist Björk , who asked him to direct the video for her song `` Human Behaviour `` .
The collaboration proved long-lasting , with Gondry directing a total of seven music videos for Björk .
Other artists who have collaborated with Gondry on more than one occasion include Daft Punk , The White Stripes , The Chemical Brothers , The Vines , Steriogram , Radiohead , and Beck .
Gondry has also created numerous television commercials .
He pioneered the `` bullet time `` technique later adapted in The Matrix , in a 1998 commercial for Smirnoff vodka , as well as directing a trio of inventive holiday-themed advertisements for clothing retailer Gap , Incorporated .
He has a teenage son named Paul who is also an artist .
Professional career
Gondry is often cited , along with directors Spike Jonze and David Fincher , as representative of the influx of music video directors into feature film .
Gondry made his feature film debut in 2001 with Human Nature , garnering mixed reviews .
His second film , Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind -LRB- also his second collaboration with screenwriter Charlie Kaufman -RRB- , was released in 2004 and received very favorable reviews , becoming one of the most critically acclaimed films of the year .
Eternal Sunshine utilizes many of the image manipulation techniques that Gondry had experimented with in his music videos .
Gondry won an Academy Award alongside Kaufman and Pierre Bismuth for the screenplay of Eternal Sunshine .
The style of Gondry 's music videos often relies on videography and camera tricks which play with frames of reference .
Gondry participating with The 1 Second Film art project .
Gondry also directed the musical documentary Dave Chappelle 's Block Party -LRB- 2006 -RRB- which followed comedian Dave Chappelle as he attempted to hold a large , free concert in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn .
His following film , The Science of Sleep , hit theaters in September , 2006 .
This film stars Mexican actor Gael García Bernal , and marked a return to the fantastical , surreal techniques he employed in Eternal Sunshine .
According to the Guinness World Records 2004 , Michel Gondry 's Levi 's 501 Jeans `` Drugstore '' spot holds the record for `` Most awards won by a TV commercial '' .
The commercial was never aired in North America because of the suggestive content involving purchasing latex condoms .
In September 2006 , Gondry made his debut as an installation artist at Deitch Projects in New York City ` s SoHo gallery district .
The show , called `` The Science of Sleep : An Exhibition of Sculpture and Pathological Creepy Little Gifts '' featured props from his film , The Science of Sleep , as well as film clips and a selection of gifts that the artist had given to women he was interested in , many of them former or current collaborators , Karen Baird , Kishu Chand , Dorothy Barrick and Lauri Faggioni .
A leitmotif of the film is a ` Disastrology ' calendar , Gondry commissioned the painter Baptiste Ibar to draw harrowing images of natural and human disasters .
His brother Olivier `` Twist '' Gondry is also a television commercial and music video director creating videos for bands such as The Stills , Hot Hot Heat and The Vines .
He was asked by French comic duet Eric and Ramzy to direct Steak , but declined .
The film was subsequently directed by Mr Oizo .
Gondry was an Artist in Residence at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2005 and 2006 .
Later directing the music video for the Paul McCartney song `` Dance Tonight `` , in which Gondry makes a cameo appearance .
His most recent work was the directing of `` Unnatural Love , '' the fifth episode in season two of HBO 's Flight of the Conchords -LRB- TV series -RRB- .
He is currently slated to direct Seth Rogen and Stephen Chow in the motion picture adaptation The Green Hornet .
Filmography
Feature films
Human Nature -LRB- 2001 -RRB-
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
The Science of Sleep -LRB- 2006 -RRB-
Be Kind Rewind -LRB- 2008 -RRB-
The 1 Second Film -LRB- 2009 -RRB- -LRB- Producer -RRB-
Megalomania -LRB- 2009 -RRB- -LRB- upcoming -RRB-
The Green Hornet -LRB- 2010 -RRB- -LRB- upcoming -RRB-
Master of Space and Time -LRB- 2011 -RRB- -LRB- upcoming -RRB-
Short films
L'expedition fatale -LRB- 1986 -RRB-
Jazzmosphère -LRB- 1987 -RRB-
My Brother 's 24th Birthday -LRB- 1988 -RRB-
La lettre -LRB- 1998 -RRB-
The Letter
One Day ...
-LRB- 2001 -RRB-
Pecan Pie -LRB- 2003 -RRB-
Ossamuch !
- Kishu & Co. -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
Tiny -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
Three Dead People -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
Drumb and Drumber -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
Michel Gondry Solves a Rubik 's Cube with his Nose -LRB- 2007 -RRB-
Tôkyô !
: Interior Design -LRB- 2008 -RRB-
Documentary films
Vingt p'tites tours -LRB- 1989 -RRB- Co-director
Twenty Small Towers
I've Been Twelve Forever -LRB- 2003 -RRB-
Dave Chappelle 's Block Party -LRB- 2005 -RRB-
L'Epine dans le Coeur -LRB- 2009 - upcoming -RRB-
Videography
`` Too Many Dicks On The Dancefloor '' & `` Carol Brown '' -LRB- unofficial videos -RRB- - Flight Of The Conchords -LRB- 2009 -RRB-
`` Soleil du Soir '' - Dick Annegarn -LRB- 2008 -RRB-
`` Declare Independence `` - Björk -LRB- 2007 -RRB- URL_http
`` Dance Tonight `` - Paul McCartney -LRB- 2007 -RRB-
`` Cellphone 's Dead `` - Beck -LRB- 2006 -RRB-
`` King of the Game '' - Cody ChesnuTT -LRB- 2006 -RRB-
`` Heard ` Em Say `` -LRB- U.S. Version -RRB- - Kanye West -LRB- 2005 -RRB-
`` The Denial Twist `` - The White Stripes -LRB- 2005 -RRB-
`` Light & Day '' -LRB- movie version -RRB- - The Polyphonic Spree -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
`` Winning Days '' - The Vines -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
`` Mad World '' -LRB- Donnie Darko soundtrack version -RRB- - Gary Jules -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
`` Ride '' - The Vines -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
`` Walkie Talkie Man '' - Steriogram -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
`` I Wonder '' - The Willowz -LRB- 2004 -RRB-
`` The Hardest Button to Button `` - The White Stripes -LRB- 2003 -RRB-
`` Behind '' - Lacquer -LRB- 2003 -RRB-
`` Come Into My World `` - Kylie Minogue -LRB- 2002 -RRB-
`` A l'envers à l'endroit '' - Noir Désir -LRB- 2002 -RRB-
`` Dead Leaves and the Dirty Ground `` - The White Stripes -LRB- 2002 -RRB-
`` Fell in Love with a Girl `` - The White Stripes -LRB- 2002 -RRB-
`` Star Guitar `` - The Chemical Brothers -LRB- 2001 -RRB-
`` Knives Out `` - Radiohead -LRB- 2001 -RRB-
`` Let Forever Be `` - The Chemical Brothers -LRB- 1999 -RRB-
`` Gimme Shelter `` - The Rolling Stones -LRB- 1998 -RRB-
`` Another One Bites The Dust '' - Wyclef Jean -LRB- 1998 -RRB-
`` Music Sounds Better With You `` - Stardust -LRB- 1998 -RRB-
`` Bachelorette `` - Björk -LRB- 1997 -RRB-
`` Deadweight `` - Beck -LRB- 1997 -RRB-
`` Jóga `` - Björk -LRB- 1997 -RRB-
`` Everlong `` - Foo Fighters -LRB- 1997 -RRB-
`` A Change Would Do You Good `` - Sheryl Crow -LRB- 1997 -RRB-
`` Around the World `` - Daft Punk -LRB- 1997 -RRB-
`` Feel It '' - Neneh Cherry -LRB- 1997 -RRB-
`` Sugar Water '' - Cibo Matto -LRB- 1996 -RRB-
`` Hyper-Ballad `` - Björk -LRB- 1996 -RRB-
`` Like a Rolling Stone `` - The Rolling Stones -LRB- 1995 -RRB-
`` Isobel `` - Björk -LRB- 1995 -RRB-
`` Protection '' - Massive Attack -LRB- 1995 -RRB-
`` High Head Blues '' - Black Crowes -LRB- 1995 -RRB-
`` Army of Me `` - Björk -LRB- 1995 -RRB-
`` Fire On Babylon '' - Sinéad O'Connor -LRB- 1994 -RRB-
`` Lucas With the Lid Off '' - Lucas -LRB- 1994 -RRB-
`` Little Star '' - Stina Nordenstam -LRB- 1994 -RRB-
`` This is it -LRB- Your Soul -RRB- '' - Hothouse Flowers -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` It 's Too Real -LRB- Big Scary Animal -RRB- '' - Belinda Carlisle -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` Human Behaviour `` - Björk -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` Believe '' - Lenny Kravitz -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` She Kissed Me '' - Terence Trent D'Arby -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` Voila , Voila , Qu'ça r'Commence '' - Rachid Taha -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` La main parisienne '' - Malcolm McLaren , featuring Amina -LRB- 1993 -RRB- -LRB- unreleased -RRB-
`` Je Danse Le Mia '' - IAM -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` Snowbound '' - Donald Fagen -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` La Tour de Pise '' - Jean François Coen -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` Hou !
Mamma Mia '' - Les Négresses Vertes -LRB- 1993 -RRB-
`` Les Jupes '' - RoBERT -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` Two Worlds Collide '' - Inspiral Carpets -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` Close But No Cigar '' - Thomas Dolby -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` Paradoxal Système '' - Laurent Voulzy -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` La Ville '' - Oui Oui -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` How the West Was Won '' - Energy Orchard -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` Les Voyages Immobiles '' - Etienne Daho -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` Blow Me Down '' - Mark Curry -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` Comme un ange -LRB- qui pleure -RRB- '' - Les Wampas -LRB- 1992 -RRB-
`` Dad , laisse-moi conduire la Cad '' - Peter & the Electro Kitsch Band -LRB- 1991 -RRB-
`` La normalité '' - Les Objects -LRB- 1991 -RRB-
`` Sarah '' - Les Objects -LRB- 1991 -RRB-
`` Ma Maison '' - Oui Oui -LRB- 1990 -RRB-
`` Queen for a Day '' - The Life of Riley -LRB- 1989 -RRB- -LRB- unreleased -RRB-
`` Tu rimes avec mon coeur '' - Original MC -LRB- 1989 -RRB-
`` Les Cailloux '' - Oui Oui -LRB- 1989 -RRB-
`` Il y a ceux '' - l'Affaire Louis Trio -LRB- 1989 -RRB-
`` Queen for a Day '' - The Life of Riley -LRB- 1989 -RRB-
`` Dô , l'enfant d'eau '' - Jean-Luc Lahaye -LRB- 1988 -RRB-
`` Bolide '' - Oui Oui -LRB- 1988 -RRB-
`` Un Joyeux Noël '' - Oui Oui -LRB- 1988 -RRB-
`` Junior Et Sa Voix D'Or '' - Oui Oui -LRB- 1988 -RRB-
Advertisements
Adidas Aftershave - Released From Work
Air France - Le Nuage
Air France - Le Passage
AMD - Flatzone
BMW - Pure Drive
Coca-Cola - Snowboarder
Nespresso - The Boutique
Diet Coke - Tingle and Bounce 1 , Tingle and Bounce 2
Électricité de France - Selects
Earthlink - Privacy
Fiat - Lancia Y10
Fox Sports Network campaign -LRB- four ads -RRB-
GAP - Holiday Campaign 1 Holiday Campaign 2 Holiday Campaign 3
Gatorade - Propel Fitness Water - Drip
Heineken - Debut
Levi 's - Bellybutton
Levi 's - Drugstore
Levi 's - Mermaids
Levi 's - Swap
Motorola - Razr2
NatWest - Zoom
Nike - Basketball campaign -LRB- five ads -RRB-
Nike - I Can Play
Nike - Leo
Nike - The Long , Long Run
Polaroid - Resignation / Living Moments
Smirnoff - Smarienberg
Volvo - I Said Volvo
Television
Flight of the Conchords , Episode 17 : ` Unnatural Love ` -LRB- 2009 -RRB-
Trivia
Grandson of Constant Martin .
References
Michel Gondry : Music Video Genius , Compiled by Jonathan Wells , RES Magazine March/April 2004
External links
MichelGondry.com Official Website and Shop
Le Monde de Michel Gondry French website dedicated to Michel 's work
AOL Interview about ` Be Kind Rewind ' that looks at how Gondry has matured as a filmmaker .
Director File ·· Michel Gondry documents all of Michel 's work
Le Romantique New York Times Magazine profile on Michel Gondry -LRB- 09/2006 -RRB-
Washington Post : Michel Gondry -LRB- 03/2006 -RRB-
Associated Press article that links Gondry 's dreams to his work .
Suicide Girls Interview
DirectorsLabel.com co-founded with Spike Jonze and Chris Cunningham
Partizan represents Gondry alongside many other directors for commercials and music videos worldwide
BBC Imagine ...
A unique Exquisite Corpse which Michel Gondry has contributed to
`` Dream Factory '' by Ben Davis , Artnet Magazine
`` How My Brain Works '' Gondry interview with Scott Thill of Bright Lights Film Journal
Michel Gondry 's videos at Youtube
`` Michel Gondry Solves a Rubiks Cube with his Nose '' - A YouTube video of Michel Gondry `` solving '' a Rubik 's cube with his `` nose . ''
`` How Michel Gondry Faked His Rubik 's Cube Stunt '' - This video includes evidence supporting the hypothesis that Michel Gondry faked solving a Rubik 's cube with his feet .
Interviews SiouxWIRE interview compilation
`` Michel Gondry '' a parody of MTV Cribs and Gondry 's filmmaking style by sketch comedy group Olde English .
Michel Gondry 's Producer Profile on The 1 Second Film website
Feature on 7x7.com on Tokyo
Videography at Clipland

S.C. Beira-Mar
Sport Clube Beira-Mar -LRB- pron. -RRB- is a Portuguese sports club from Aveiro .
Its football team is in Liga Vitalis
Beira-Mar plays in a football stadium built for the 2004 European Football Championship called Estádio Municipal de Aveiro .
Its best known players of all times were Eusébio -LRB- who played for the team during the 1976/77 season -RRB- and António Sousa .
Both tasted glory with Portugal national football team .
History
Sport Beira-Mar was founded on 1 January 1922 in Aveiro .
Beira-Mar is most known for its renowned futsal , basketball , and boxing departments .
Football is also a growing spot in the club , with the club being a regular participant in the highest division of Portuguese football , nowadays called BWINLIGA .
Beira-Mar 's best season in the league was in 1990/91 .
The biggest feat in the club 's history was winning the Portuguese Football Cup in the 1998/99 season , and achieving its final in 1990/91 .
The club also won the Taça Ribeiro dos Reis in 1964/65 and won the 2nd Division , three times , in 1960/61 ; 1964/65 ; 1970/71 .
The club also won the Liga de Honra in 2005/06 .
Beira Mar participated in the UEFA Cup in the 1999/2000 season being beaten by Vitesse of Holland 2-1 .
Back in the 1960s , Eusébio was an icon to Portugal and Benfica fans .
But in 1976 , many Beira-Mar fans were skeptical if Eusébio could still play the way he did 10 years prior , they soon found out as Eusébio soon registered 3 goals in 12 games a feat for a player his age .
Without a doubt , the biggest feat in Beira-Mar 's history was the Portuguese Football Cup in the 1998/99 season , when the team was managed by António Sousa , a former player of the club , who also played for Porto and the national squad .
The lone goal in the final against Campomaiorense was scored by Ricardo Sousa , his son .
Unfortunately , the club was relegated to the Liga de Honra that same year .
This was the second time the club reached the competition final , the first one was in 1990/91 , when it lost to Porto .
Estádio Municipal de Aveiro is a football -LRB- soccer -RRB- stadium in Aveiro , Portugal .
It was designed for UEFA Euro 2004 by the architect Tomás Taveira .
It is very colorful and festive-looking .
It seats 30,498 people and is the home to the football club of Beira-Mar .
Many Beira-Mar fans call it the `` Circus '' for its ' intense design .
The question of who actually owns the stadium , the club or the municipality of Aveiro , has caused many tensions between the two entities , endangering the funding of the club .
The return of Mário Jardel to Portugal to play in Beira-Mar was one of the biggest news in the Portuguese football in the summer of 2006 .
It lifted many of Beira-Mar 's fans hopes that the club would not get relegated with the Brazilian scorer , who won the European boot on several occasions -LRB- which is given to the top scorer in Europe -RRB- .
He scored in his debut game , a 2-2 draw against Desportivo das Aves .
However , with Beira-Mar struggling in the Liga , Jardel transferred to Anorthosis Famagusta of Cyprus in the winter transfer window .
The fans of Beira-Mar are known as Auri-Negros -LRB- Yellow-Blacks -RRB- .
300px
Notable Famous Players
See also .
Eusébio
Antonio Sousa
Ricardo Sousa
Tininho
Jorge Leitão
Mariano Fernández
Edgar
José Silva
Mário Jardel
Fernando
Todor Kiutchoukov
Fernando Aguiar
Pavel Srníček
Paul Murray
Magdi Abdelghani
Mourtala Diakité
Andrija Delibašić
Clyde Wijnhard
Antolin Alcaraz
Stephen McPhee
Faye Fary
Marian Zemen
Andy Marriott
Current Squad
League And Cup History
The club has 24 presences at the top level of Portuguese football , and played once in the UEFA Cup after winning the Portuguese Cup in the same season that it was relegated becoming with Bray Wanderers , the first second level team playing in the UEFA Cup .
External links
Official Site
Daily Portuguese futebol news , discussion , stats , images , and more in English
Tourist City Of Aveiro
Soccerway profile

Spartacus
Spartacus by Denis Foyatier , 1830
Spartacus -LRB- c. 109 BC-71 BC -RRB- , according to Roman historians , was a slave and a gladiator who became a leader -LRB- or possibly one of several leaders -RRB- in the somewhat successful slave uprising against the Roman Republic known as the Third Servile War .
Little is known about Spartacus beyond the events of the war , and surviving historical accounts are inaccurate and often contradictory .
Spartacus 's struggle , often seen as the fight of an oppressed people fighting for their freedom against a slave-owning aristocracy , has found new meaning for modern writers since the 19th century .
The rebellion of Spartacus has proven inspirational to many modern literary and political writers , making Spartacus a folk hero among cultures both ancient and modern .
Spartacus 's origins
Thracian tribes in Odrysian kingdom and Spartacus tribe , the Maedi
The ancient sources agree on Spartacus 's origins .
Plutarch describes him as `` a Thracian of Nomadic stock '' .
Appian says he was `` a Thracian by birth , who had once served as a soldier with the Romans , but had since been a prisoner and sold for a Gladiator `` .
Florus -LRB- 2.8.8 -RRB- described him as one `` who from Thracian mercenary , had become a Roman soldier , of a soldier a deserter and robber , and afterwards , from consideration of his strength , a gladiator '' .
Some authors refer to the Thracian tribe of the Maedi , which in historic times occupied the area on the southwestern fringes of Thrace -LRB- present-day south-western Bulgaria -RRB- .
There is a hypothesis , he was born in the Thracian settlement Desudava , in the area of present-day Sandanski , where his monument is built .
Plutarch also writes that Spartacus 's wife , a prophetess of the same tribe , was enslaved with him .
The name Spartacus is otherwise attested in the Black Sea region : kings of the Thracian dynasty of the Cimmerian Bosporus and Pontus are known to have borne it , and a Thracian `` Spardacus '' or `` Sparadokos '' , father of Seuthes I of the Odrysae , is also known .
Third Servile War
Revolt leading to the Third Servile War
Spartacus was trained at the gladiatorial school -LRB- ludus -RRB- near Capua , belonging to Lentulus Batiatus .
Finally in 73 BC , Spartacus and some seventy followers escaped from the gladiator school of Lentulus Batiatus .
Seizing the knives in the cook 's shop and a wagon full of weapons , the slaves fled to the caldera of Mount Vesuvius , near modern day Naples .
There they were joined by other rural slaves .
The group overran the region , plundering and pillaging .
Spartacus 's intention was to leave Italy and return home .
His chief aides were gladiators from Gaul and Germania , named Crixus , Castus , Gannicus and Oenomaus .
Other runaway slaves joined , increasing the numbers to several hundred .
While the slave-to-Roman citizen ratio at that time was very high , a larger problem was that at the time of the uprising Pompey was fighting a revolt led by Quintus Sertorius in Hispania while at the same time the consul Lucullus had committed the rest of Rome 's available legions to fighting Mithridates in the Third Mithridatic War .
While the dispersal of Romes legions on two distant fronts made this slave rebellion a very serious threat , Rome failed to take adequate action .
With Rome 's experienced legions away , and believing slaves could not defeat their legions , the Senate sent a praetor , Claudius Glaber -LRB- his nomen may have been Clodius ; his praenomen is unknown -RRB- , against the rebels , with a militia of about 3,000 .
They besieged the rebels on Vesuvius blocking their escape , but Spartacus had ropes made from vines and with his men , climbed down a cliff on the other side of the volcano , to the rear of the Roman soldiers , and staged a surprise attack .
Not expecting trouble from a handful of slaves , the Romans had not fortified their camp or posted adequate sentries .
As a result , most of the Roman soldiers were still sleeping and killed in this attack .
After this success many runaway slaves joined Spartacus until the group grew into an army of allegedly 1,000,000 escaped slaves .
Military success continues
The Fall of Spartacus .
Spartacus is credited as an excellent military tactician and his experience as a former auxiliary soldier made him a formidable enemy , but his men were mostly former slave labourers who lacked military training .
They hid out in the Caldera on Mount Vesuvius which at that time was dormant and heavily wooded , and this enabled them to train properly for the fight with the Romans .
Following the defeat of Glaber , two legions of militia under the command of the praetor Publius Varinius set out to confront the rebels .
Spartacus intercepted an advance force of 2,000 men under Varinius’ lieutenant Lucius Furius and annihilated it .
Leaving Vesuvius he discovered another force of Romans under Cossinius at a camp near Herculaneum which was similarly defeated .
Moving further south into Lucania the rebels deployed in battle formation to face the 4,000 legionairies led by Varinius .
Some legionaires refused to advance , while others fled but Varinius attacked and was badly defeated , Varinius escaped but the legions standards and insignia were lost .
Four hundred Roman prisoners were forced to fight each other as gladiators or were crucified in celebration .
By spring the rebels marched turned north towards Gaul occupying Campania and destroying a Roman corps under Gaius Thoranius .
Spartacus wanted to continue north but Crixus wanted to attack Rome and taking 30,000 men with him moved to the Apulia region .
Finally taking the revolt seriously , the consuls Lucius Gellius Publicola and Gnaeus Cornelius Lentulus Clodianus led four veteran Roman legions who had been recalled from Spain , Gaul and Germany to crush the rebellion .
Lentulus blocked Spartacus in the north while two legions under praetor Quintus Arrius attacked Crixus near Apulia , soundly defeating the rebels and killing Crixus .
The two legions then moved behind Spartacus intending to trap him between the two armies .
Spartacus attacked Lentulus destroying his army , he then turned and defeated the oncoming legions of Gellius .
At Mutina in the Cisalpine Gaul region of northern Italy governor Caius Cassius attempted to block the rebels with 10,000 men but was quickly defeated leaving no more obstacles between Spartacus and Gaul .
More importantly , no more legions were available to defend Rome .
Choice to remain in Italy
Apparently , Spartacus had intended to march his army out of Italy and into Gaul -LRB- now Belgium , Switzerland and France -RRB- or maybe even to Hispania , where Roman soldiers were fighting , to join the rebellion of Quintus Sertorius as it is known that Sertorius was in communication with the rebels .
However , he changed his mind and turned back south , the sources say under pressure from his followers for they wanted more plunder .
Although it is not known for certain why they turned back when they were on the brink of escaping into Gaul , it is regarded as their greatest mistake .
There are theories that some of the non-fighting followers -LRB- some 10,000 or so -RRB- did in fact cross the Alps and return to their homelands .
The Roman senate gave supreme military command to the praetor Marcus Licinius Crassus who at that time was the wealthiest man in Rome and was also the only volunteer for the position .
Crassus now collected the remnants of the defeated legions and integrated them with several legions newly raised from militia .
When news reached Rome that Spartacus was marching through Picenum Crassus ordered his legate Mummius to lead two of the new legions behind Spartacus but to avoid contact .
Mummius , believing he had the element of surprise on his side , attacked .
In the resulting battle the legions broke rank and fled .
Crassus ordered that 500 legionaires accused of cowardice be decimated -LRB- one in ten executed after drawing lots -RRB- and began re-arming and training the troops .
Finally , with 40,000 men in eight legions now under his command , Crassus engaged Spartacus in a running battle forcing him further south through Lucania as Crassus gained the upper hand .
By the end of 72 BC , Spartacus was encamped in Rhegium -LRB- Reggio Calabria -RRB- , near the Strait of Messina .
Spartacus arranged a deal with Cilician pirates to get them to Sicily but after accepting payment they failed to take their fleet to the approved rendezvous .
Crassus now constructed a 32 mile long wood and stone wall with a 15 foot deep ditch completely across the peninsula to cut the rebels off and starve them into submission .
With winter setting in and supplies running low Spartacus had no choice but to try to break through the encirclement .
During a snowstorm he managed to break through Crassus 's lines and escape towards Brundisium -LRB- now Brindisi -RRB- .
With the rebels now free again Rome panicked and the senate authorized the return of Pompey from Hispania ; and Marcus Terentius Varro Lucullus from Macedonia .
Ganicus and Cestus with their followers broke away from Spartacus ' army to plunder the villages and estates but were surprised by Crassus .
Camped on the shores of a lake with no retreat possible more than 12,000 were killed before Spartacus arrived to rescue them .
Pursued by the Romans , the rebels fled to the mountains of Petelia .
With several legions under the legates Scrophas and Quintus attacking their rear Spartacus wheeled about and routed them .
Word arrived that Lucullus had landed at Brundisium and Spartacus decided to attack Crassus as the weaker of the two forces .
Crassus ' forces faced Spartacus in Lucania near the river Silarus , where Spartacus sought to overwhelm the Romans by sheer numbers .
The rebels were routed with the survivors fleeing .
It is believed that Spartacus himself was killed during the rout .
According to Plutarch , `` Finally , after his companions had taken to flight , he -LRB- Spartacus -RRB- stood alone , surrounded by a multitude of foes , and was still defending himself when he was cut down '' .
According to Appian , `` Spartacus was wounded in the thigh with a spear and sank upon his knee , holding his shield in front of him and contending in this way against his assailants until he and the great mass of those with him were surrounded and slain '' ; The body of Spartacus was not found .
After the battle , legionaries found and rescued 3,000 unharmed Roman prisoners in their camp and 6,600 of Spartacus 's followers were crucified along the via Appia -LRB- or the Appian Way -RRB- from Brundisium to Rome .
Crassus never gave orders for the bodies to be taken down , thus travelers were forced to see the bodies for years after the final battle .
Around 5,000 slaves , however , escaped the capture .
Although Crassus had won , his own legions were so badly depleted in the battle that he was unable to chase the fugitives slaves who had escaped .
They fled north and were later destroyed by Pompey , who had arrived from Roman Iberia and hunted the rebels without mercy throughout Italy .
This enabled him also to claim credit for ending this war .
Pompey was greeted as a hero in Rome while Crassus received little credit or celebration .
Modern depictions of Spartacus
Politics
Toussaint L'Ouverture and his successor Jean-Jacques Dessalines led the slave rebellion of the Haitian Revolution -LRB- 1791—1804 -RRB- , where the armies of Spain , Britain and Napoleon Bonaparte ` s France were defeated .
Toussaint was called the `` Black Spartacus '' by one of his defeated opponents , the Comte de Lavaux .
Spartacus has been a great inspiration to revolutionaries in modern times , most notably the Spartacist League of Weimar Germany , which later became the Communist Party of Germany , as well as the Spartacus anti-fascist organisation in the ` 70s Austria .
Karl Marx listed Spartacus as one of his heros , and described him as `` the most splendid fellow in the whole of ancient history . ''
Noted Latin American Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara was also a strong admirer of Spartacus .
Founder of the Bavarian Illuminati , Adam Weishaupt , often referred to himself as Spartacus within written correspondences .
Artistic
Film
Most famously , Stanley Kubrick ` s adaptation of Howard Fast ` s novel , as Spartacus , in 1960 .
The catchphrase `` I am Spartacus ! `` from this film has been referenced in a number of other films , television programs , and commercials .
In the 1995 film Clueless , Christian uses Stanley Kubrick 's adaptation of the film as part of a subtle hint campaign to tell her that he 's gay .
Just before the members of The Wonders are about to play the biggest show of their careers during one of the final scenes of Tom Hanks ` 1996 film That Thing You Do !
the band 's lead guitarist Lenny Haise asks , `` Skitch , how did we get here ? ''
Drummer Guy Patterson replies , `` I led you here , sir , for I am Spartacus . ''
In 2004 , Fast 's novel was adapted as Spartacus , a made-for-TV movie , by the USA Network , with Goran Višnjić in the main role .
Sam Raimi has confirmed that he is producing a 13 episode television series based on Spartacus .
Filming is expected to start next year and will be aired on Starz .19
In movie `` The Recruit '' hero Clayton helped to develop a computer program called Sp @ rtacus , which turns computer terminals to which it is networked into its slave
In the Nicktoons Network series Kappa Mikey , Spartacus is a frequent character that randomly inserts short , opinionated quips .
He is depicted as bald and wields a sword .
Literature
Howard Fast wrote the historical novel Spartacus .
Arthur Koestler wrote a novel about Spartacus called The Gladiators .
There is a novel Spartacus by the Scottish writer Lewis Grassic Gibbon .
Spartacus is a prominent character in the novel Fortune 's Favorites by Colleen McCullough .
McCullough subscribes to the theory that Spartacus was a renegade Roman soldier , but sticks to the historical account that his body was never found .
The Italian writer Rafaello Giovagnoli wrote his historical novel , Spartacus , in 1874 .
His novel has been subsequently translated and published in many European countries .
There is also a novel The students of Spartacus -LRB- Uczniowie Spartakusa -RRB- by the Polish writer Halina Rudnicka .
The Reverend Elijah Kellogg 's Spartacus to the Gladiators at Capua has been used effectively by schoolboys to practise their oratory skills for ages .
Spartacus also appears in Conn Iggulden ` s Emperor Series in the book The Death of Kings .
Spartacus and His Glorious Gladiators , by Toby Brown , is part of the Dead Famous series of children 's history books
In the Bolo novel Bolo Rising by William H. Keith , the character HCT `` Hector '' is based on Spartacus .
In the novel Flip by David Lubar , one of the legends Ryan becomes is Spartacus , specifically when he is challenged to a fight by the school bully .
Amal Donkol , the Egyptian modern poet wrote his masterpiece `` The Last Words of Spartacus '' .
Steven Saylor 's novel `` Arms of Nemesis '' , part of his Gordianus the Finder series , is set during the Spartacan revolt .
Music
Spartacus is a ballet , with a score by composer Aram Khachaturian .
Australian composer Carl Vine wrote a short piano piece entitled Spartacus , from `` Red Blues . ''
The German group Triumvirat released the album Spartacus in 1975 .
Jeff Wayne released his musical retelling , Jeff Wayne 's Musical Version of Spartacus in 1992 .
Phantom Regiment , a World Class -LRB- formerly Division 1 -RRB- drum corps of Drum Corps International , performed a show entitled `` Spartacus '' depicting the show through music and visual movement for their competitive field show in 1981 , 1982 , and 2008 .
Their 2008 program won World Championship Finals .
Love Theme From `` Spartacus '' `` Swing of Delight '' Carlos Santana , Wayne Shorter , 1980
Videogames
Spartacus is a character in the real-time strategy game .
Sparda is a character in the Devil May Cry universe , whose name has been supposedly inspired by Spartacus .
As the legend says , he was a demon that rebelled against his own kind for the sake of the human world .
He defeated countless demons and their Emperor , Mundus , before sealing the gateway to the demon world .
Sport
Russian sports clubs named `` FC Spartak '' , of which FC Spartak Moscow is the most well-known , and Spartak sport society are named in honor of Spartacus .
The Spartakiad was a competition similar to the Olympic games for countries of the Soviet bloc . , This name was also used for pseudo-spoting event held every five years in Czechoslovakia .
It featured mass people formation moving in the choreographed way , very much resembling the opening ceremonial of Beijing Olympic games , only without expensive costumes end effects .
Swiss Professional Cyclist Fabian Cancellara has been given the nickname ` Spartacus '
Other
Spartacus Peak on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands .
The board game Heroscape features Spartacus as one of the many usable game pieces .
In the Soviet Union , a nation-wide Olympic-like event was organized in honour of Spartacus .
This event was called the Spartakiad .
Sport clubs in Eastern Europe were named Spartak -LRB- Slavic pronunciation -RRB- after Spartacus .
The most famous is Spartak Moscow .
Adam Weishaupt , Freemason and supposed founder of the Illuminati , used `` Spartacus '' as a nom de plume .
In the 2003 movie The Recruit , James Clayton -LRB- played by Colin Farrell -RRB- , creates a webcast software program called `` Spartacus '' , that can gain control of all webcast devices in a particular area .
The students who created the program in the film say it was named for `` the slave revolt . ''
The title character of the cartoon series Spartakus and the Sun Beneath the Sea is loosely based on Spartacus .
In the table-top strategy game Warhammer 40000 , the primarch Angron has many similaraties to Spartacus .
The Ottawa Senators mascot is a lion named `` Spartacat '' , a play on Spartacus since the team logo is a Roman Senator .
The name of the character Sportacus in the children 's television program LazyTown is a pun on Spartacus .
Spartacus 7s is the name of an international rugby sevens team created in 2006 .
In `` The Histories of Pliny the Elder `` - a 1957 episode of the British radio comedy The Goon Show parodying epic films - Spartacus is used as a pseudonym for Bloodnok after he has an affair with Caesar 's wife and has to escape from Caesar ; `` You know that saying , ` Caesar 's wife is above suspicion ' ?
Well I put an end to all that rubbish ! '' .
Spartacus is a character in the collectible miniatures game , Heroscape , released in Wave 5 , Thora 's Vengeance .
Spartacus Books , founded in 1973 , is an anarchist bookstore and resource center collectively run by volunteers on the lower East side of Vancouver , B.C. , Canada ... .
In the episode `` Massage Chair '' of Newsradio , when the workers stage a revolt when the free snacks are taken away from them , Dave retorts , `` So Spartacus here speaks for everyone ? ''
Bill replies , `` Yes , Dave , I am Spartacus .
And so is Matthew , right , Matthew ?
Matthew ! ''
Matthew affirms this and Bill continues , `` Beth ! ''
Beth hesitantly mumbles , `` I am Spark-tis too ... ''
In the anime , Spartacus is a Persona of Takuro Sakakbiba .
References
Bibliography
Classical authors
Appian .
Civil Wars .
Translated by J. Carter .
-LRB- Harmondsworth : Penguin Books , 1996 -RRB-
Florus .
Epitome of Roman History .
-LRB- London : W. Heinemann , 1947 -RRB-
Orosius .
The Seven Books of History Against the Pagans .
Translated by Roy J. Deferrari .
-LRB- Washington , DC : Catholic University of America Press , 1964 -RRB- .
Plutarch .
Fall of the Roman Republic .
Translated by R. Warner .
-LRB- London : Penguin Books , 1972 -RRB- , with special emphasis placed on `` The Life of Crassus '' and `` The Life of Pompey '' .
Sallust .
Conspiracy of Catiline and the War of Jugurtha .
-LRB- London : Constable , 1924 -RRB-
Modern historiography
Bradley , Keith R. Slavery and Rebellion in the Roman World , 140 B.C.–70 B.C. Bloomington ; Indianapolis : Indiana University Press , 1989 -LRB- hardcover , ISBN 0-253-31259-0 -RRB- ; 1998 -LRB- paperback , ISBN 0-253-21169-7 -RRB- .
-LSB- Chapter V -RSB-
The Slave War of Spartacus , pp. 83–101 .
Rubinsohn , Wolfgang Zeev .
Spartacus ' Uprising and Soviet Historical Writing .
Oxford : Oxbow Books , 1987 -LRB- paperback , ISBN 0-9511243-1-5 -RRB- .
Spartacus : Film and History , edited by Martin M. Winkler .
Oxford : Blackwell Publishers , 2007 -LRB- hardcover , ISBN 1405131802 ; paperback , ISBN 1405131810 -RRB- .
Trow , M.J. Spartacus : The Myth and the Man. Stroud , United Kingdom : Sutton Publishing , 2006 -LRB- hardcover , ISBN 0-7509-3907-9 -RRB- .
Genner , Michael .
`` Spartakus .
Eine Gegengeschichte des Altertums nach den Legenden der Zigeuner '' .
Two volumes .
Paperback .
Trikont Verlag , Munchen 1979/1980 .
Vol 1 ISBN 3-88167-053-X Vol 2 ISBN 3-88167-0
External links
Spartacus Article and full text of the Roman and Greek sources .
`` Spartacus '' —Movie starring Kirk Douglas and Sir Peter Ustinov
`` Spartacus '' —TV-Mini-series starring Goran Višnjić and Alan Bates l

Shimane Prefecture
is a prefecture of Japan located in the Chūgoku region on Honshū island .
The capital is Matsue .
It is the second least populous prefecture in Japan , next to the Tottori Prefecture that is a neighboring prefecture on the east side .
The prefecture has an area elongated from east to west facing the Chūgoku Mountain Range on the south side and to the Sea of Japan on the north side .
Most of the cities are near the shoreline of the Sea of Japan .
There is Izumo Taisha in Izumo City , which is one of the oldest Shinto shrines in Japan .
The Oki Islands in the Sea of Japan are also part of Shimane Prefecture , which also claims to have jurisdiction over the South Korea -controlled island of Liancourt Rocks -LRB- Takeshima -RRB- .
History
Matsue Castle
Early History
The history of Shimane starts with the Japanese mythology .
Shinto god Ōkuninushi was believed to be living in Izumo , an old province in Shimane .
The Izumo Shrine , which is in the city of Izumo , honors the god .
At that time , the current Shimane prefecture was divided in to 3 parts , Iwami , Izumo , and Oki .
That lasted until the abolition of the han system took place in 1871 .
During the Nara period , Kakinomoto no Hitomaro read a poem on Shimane 's nature when he was sent as the Royal governor .
Later on in the Kamakura period , Kamakura Shogunate forces emperors Gotoba and Emperor Godaigo to exile to Oki .
Emperor Godaigo later gets away from Oki and begins rallying against the shogunate , which later succeeds .
Middle Ages
During the Muromachi period , Izumo and Oki were controlled by the Kyogoku clan .
However , after the Ōnin War , the Amago clan expanded power based in Gassan-Toda castle .
However , in 1566 Mori Motonari conquered Izumo , Iwami , and Oki .
After over 30 years of Mori control , in 1600 Horio Yoshiharu enters Izumo and Oki as the result of Battle of Sekigahara which Mori lost .
Following the change , Horio Yoshiharu decides to move to build Matsue Castle instead of Gassan-Toda , and soon after Yoshiharu 's death the castle is completed .
Later in 1638 , the grandson of Tokugawa Ieyasu , Matsudaira Naomasa enters the castle since the Horio clan had no heir , and his family ruled until the abolition of the han system .
The Iwami area was split in to 3 clans : The mining district -LRB- direct control of the Shogunate -RRB- , the Hamada clan and the Tsuwano clan .
The Iwami Ginzan , now a UNESCO World Heritage Site produced silver and was one of the nation 's largest silver mine by the early 17th century .
Hamada clan was on the shogunate 's side in the Meiji Restoration , and the castle was burned down .
The Tsuwano clan , despite the Matsudaira -LRB- relative of the shogun -RRB- rule was on the emperor 's side in the restoration .
Modern times
In 1871 , abolition of the han system places the old Shimane and Hamada provinces in the current area of Shimane Prefecture .
Later that year , Oki becomes part of Tottori .
In 1876 , Hamada Prefecture merges with Shimane and is named Shimane Prefecture .
Also , Tottori Prefecture merges in the same year .
However , five years later , in 1881 , the current portion of Tottori Prefecture separates and the current border is formed .
Geography
Map of Shimane Prefecture .
Shimane prefecture is situated on the Sea of Japan side of the Chugoku region .
Because of its mountainous landscape , rice farming is done mostly in the Izumo plain where the city of Izumo is located .
Another major landform is the Shimane peninsula .
The peninsula is located across on the Sea of Japan from Izumo to Sakaiminato , which apparently is located in Tottori prefecture .
Also , the peninsula created two sea water lakes Lake Shinji and Nakaumi .
The island of Daikon is located in Nakaumi .
Off from the island of Honshū , the island of Oki is in Shimane prefecture as well .
The island itself is in the Daisen-Oki National Park .
Shimane also claims the use of Liancourt Rocks , which they are in dispute with South Korea .
Most major cities are located either on the seaside , or along a river .
Between 2004 and 2005 , municipalities across Japan merged , and Shimane prefecture was not an exception .
For the list of mergers , see List of mergers in Shimane Prefecture .
Cities
Eight cities are located in Shimane Prefecture , the largest being Matsue , the capital , and the smallest being Gotsu .
The cities Masuda , Unnan , Yasugi , and Gotsu had a slight population increase due to the mergers in the early 2000s .
Gōtsu
Hamada
Izumo
Masuda
Cape Hinomisaki near Izumo
Matsue -LRB- capital -RRB-
Ōda
Unnan
Yasugi
Towns and villages
Tsuwano , Shimane
The number of Towns and villages greatly decreased during the mergers .
However , they hold about one-third of the prefecture 's population .
Mergers
Climate
The prefecture has a sub-tropical climate .
Winter is cloudy with a little snow and summer is a little humid .
The year average for temperature is 14.6 degrees Celsius .
During the rainy season , June to around Mid July , it rains every day .
The hottest average temperature is in August with 26.3 degrees Celsius .
The average year preciparation is 1799 millimeters , compared to Tokyo ` s 1467 mm and Obihiro with 920 mm .
Transportation
Airports
Izumo Airport terminal
Three airports serve Shimane .
The Izumo Airport located in Hikawa is the largest airport in the prefecture in terms of passengers , which has regular flights to Haneda Airport , Osaka Airport , Fukuoka Airport , and Oki Airport .
The Iwami Airport has two flights each day to Haneda and Osaka and 2 arrivals .
Oki Airport has scheduled flights to Osaka and Izumo Airports .
Izumo Airport
Iwami Airport
Oki Airport
Rail
JR West and Ichibata Electric Railway serves the prefecture in terms of rail transportation .
The Sanin Main Line goes through the prefecture on the Sea of Japan side going into major cities such as Matsue and Izumo .
and stations are the major stops in the prefecture .
The Kisuki line , which forks from Shinji Station on the Sanin Line , connects with the Geibi Line in Hiroshima Prefecture , cutting into the Chūgoku Mountains .
Ichibata Electric Railway serve the Shimane peninsula from Dentetsu-Izumoshi Station and Izumo Taisha-Mae Station to Matsue Shinjiko-Onsen Station .
JR West has 3 Limited Express trains to Shimane , which are Super Matsukaze , Super Oki , and Yakumo .
West Japan Railway Company
Sanin Main Line
Sankō Line
Kisuki Line
Yamaguchi Line
Ichibata Electric Railway
Kita-Matsue Line
Taisha Line
Roads
Highways
The four expressways in the prefecture connect major cities with other prefectures .
The Matsue expressway connects Matsue with Unnan and Yonago in Tottori prefecture .
Hamada Expressway forks from the Chugoku Expressway at Kita-Hiroshima and stretches to Hamada .
Sanin Expressway
Matsue Expressway
Hamada Expressway
Chūgoku Expressway
Economy
In Shimane , the largest employer is the retailing industry , employing over 60,000 workers .
Mishimaya and Juntendo are examples of companies .
The manufacturing industry has the second number of employees with 49,000 workers .
In the number of business locations , the retailing industry is first with over 12,000 .
Twenty-nine percent of the total industry income is from the service industry , including retailers .
Another 13 % is from the manufacturing industry .
Companies based in Shimane
Manufacturing
Izumo Murata Manufacturing
Shimane Fujitsu
Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery
Financial
The Shimane Bank
The San-in Godo Bank
Others
Network Applied Communication Laboratory
Mishimaya
Juntendo
Ichibata Electric Railway
Major factories
Hitachi Metals
Demographics
One-third of the prefecture 's population is concentrated in the Izumo-Matsue area .
Otherwise , over two-thirds of the population is on the coastline .
The reason is that the Chugoku mountains make the land inland harder to inhabit .
Also , Shimane has the largest percentage of the elderly , and the capital Matsue has the smallest population out of all the 47 prefectural capitals .
Population by age
Culture
Universities in Shimane Prefecture
Shimane University -LRB- National university -RRB-
The University of Shimane -LRB- Prefectural university -RRB-
Tourism
Shimane Vogel Park
Garden of the Adachi Museum of Art in Yasugi
Prefectural symbols
The prefectural flower is the Mooutan Peony .
On the island of Daikonjima , they were grown from at least the 18th century .
References
See also
Lafcadio Hearn
External links
Official homepage of Shimane Prefecture
Shimane JET Programme participants homepage
National Archives of Japan ... Shimane map -LRB- 1891 -RRB-
Adachi Museum of Art

Adam Opel
Adam Opel
Adam Opel -LRB- May 9 , 1837 – September 8 , 1895 -RRB- was the founder of the German car -maker Opel .
Born in the town of Rüsselsheim near Frankfurt , he began his career in a locksmith apprenticeship .
He traveled across Europe as a teenager , and became fascinated by sewing machines .
In 1863 he opened a factory in Rüsselsheim to mass-produce these machines .
In 1868 , Opel married Sophie Marie Scheller .
They would have five sons : Carl , Wilhelm , Heinrich , Friedrich and Ludwig .
All five would eventually become involved in the growing family business .
An Opel bicycle
In 1885 , Opel expanded into building pre-assembled bicycles .
He died in 1895 , with his company the leader in European sewing machines sales and producing over 2,000 bicycles yearly .
Source
Opel 's official biography

Stonehenge
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument located in the English county of Wiltshire , about west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury .
One of the most famous sites in the world , Stonehenge is composed of earthworks surrounding a circular setting of large standing stones and sits at the centre of the densest complex of Neolithic and Bronze Age monuments in England , including several hundred burial mounds .
Archaeologists had believed that the iconic stone monument was erected around 2500 BC , as described in the chronology below .
However one recent theory has suggested that the first stones were not erected until 2400-2200 BC , whilst another suggests that bluestones may have been erected at the site as early as 3000 BC -LRB- see phase 1 below -RRB- .
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch , which constitute the earliest phase of the monument , have been dated to about 3100 BC .
The site and its surroundings were added to the UNESCO ` s list of World Heritage Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury henge monument , and it is also a legally protected Scheduled Ancient Monument .
Stonehenge itself is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust .
New archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside Project indicates that Stonehenge served as a burial ground from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated remains found that burials took place as early as 3000 BC , when the first ditches were being built around the monument .
Burials continued at Stonehenge for at least another 500 years when the giant stones which mark the landmark were put up .
According to Professor Mike Parker Pearson , head of Stonehenge Riverside Project :
Etymology
Christopher Chippindale ` s Stonehenge Complete gives the derivation of the name Stonehenge as coming from the Old English words `` stān '' meaning `` stone '' , and either `` hencg '' meaning `` hinge `` -LRB- because the stone lintels hinge on the upright stones -RRB- or `` hen -LRB- c -RRB- en '' meaning `` hang `` or `` gallows `` or `` instrument of torture '' .
Medieval gallows consisted of two uprights with a lintel joining them , resembling Stonehenge 's trilithons , rather than looking like the inverted L-shape more familiar today .
The `` henge '' portion has given its name to a class of monuments known as henges .
Archaeologists define henges as earthworks consisting of a circular banked enclosure with an internal ditch .
As often happens in archaeological terminology , this is a holdover from antiquarian usage , and Stonehenge is not truly a henge site as its bank is inside its ditch .
Despite being contemporary with true Neolithic henges and stone circles , Stonehenge is in many ways atypical .
For example , its extant trilithons make it unique .
Stonehenge is only distantly related to the other stone circles in the British Isles , such as the Ring of Brodgar .
History
Plan of Stonehenge today .
After Cleal et al. and Pitts .
Italicised numbers in the text refer to the labels on this plan .
Stonehenge itself evolved in several construction phases spanning at least some 1500 years .
However there is evidence of large scale construction both before and afterwards on and around the monument that perhaps extends the landscape 's time frame to 6500 years .
Dating and understanding the various phases of activity at Stonehenge is not a simple task ; it is complicated by poorly kept early excavation records , surprisingly few accurate scientific dates and the disturbance of the natural chalk by periglacial effects and animal burrowing .
The modern phasing most generally agreed by archaeologists is detailed below .
Features mentioned in the text are numbered and shown on the plan , right , which illustrates the site as of 2004 .
The plan omits the trilithon lintels for clarity .
Holes that no longer , or never , contained stones are shown as open circles and stones visible today are shown coloured .
It is widely assumed that Stonehenge once stood as a magnificent `` complete '' monument ; we should be aware that this can not be proved , since around half of the stones that should be present are in fact missing , and since many of the assumed stone sockets have never actually been recorded through excavation .
Before the monument -LRB- 8000 BC forward -RRB-
Some archaeologists have found four -LRB- or possibly five , although one may have been a natural tree throw -RRB- large Mesolithic postholes which date to around 8000 BC nearby , beneath the modern tourist car-park .
These held pine posts around in diameter which were erected and left to rot in situ .
Three of the posts -LRB- and possibly four -RRB- were in an east-west alignment and may have had ritual significance ; no parallels are known from Britain at the time but similar sites have been found in Scandinavia .
At this time , Salisbury Plain was still wooded but four thousand years later , during the earlier Neolithic , a causewayed enclosure at Robin Hood 's Ball and long barrow tombs were built in the surrounding landscape .
In approximately 3500 BC a large cursus monument was built north of the site as the first farmers began to clear the forest and exploit the area .
Stonehenge 1 -LRB- ca. 3100 BC -RRB-
Stonehenge 1 .
After Cleal et al .
The first monument consisted of a circular bank and ditch enclosure made of Late Cretaceous -LRB- Santonian Age -RRB- Seaford Chalk , -LRB- 7 and 8 -RRB- measuring about in diameter with a large entrance to the north east and a smaller one to the south -LRB- 14 -RRB- .
It stood in open grassland on a slightly sloping but not especially remarkable spot .
The builders placed the bones of deer and oxen in the bottom of the ditch as well as some worked flint tools .
The bones were considerably older than the antler picks used to dig the ditch and the people who buried them had looked after them for some time prior to burial .
The ditch itself was continuous but had been dug in sections , like the ditches of the earlier causewayed enclosures in the area .
The chalk dug from the ditch was piled up to form the bank .
This first stage is dated to around 3100 BC after which the ditch began to silt up naturally and was not cleared out by the builders .
Within the outer edge of the enclosed area was dug a circle of 56 pits , each about a metre -LRB- 3'3 '' -RRB- in diameter -LRB- 13 -RRB- , known as the Aubrey holes after John Aubrey , the seventeenth century antiquarian who was thought to have first identified them .
The pits may have contained standing timbers , creating a timber circle although there is no excavated evidence of them .
A recent excavation has suggested that the Aubrey Holes may have originally been used to erect a bluestone circle .
If this were the case it would advance the earliest known stone structure at the monument by some 500 years .
A small outer bank beyond the ditch could also date to this period .
Stonehenge 2 -LRB- ca. 3000 BC -RRB-
Evidence of the second phase is no longer visible .
It appears from the number of postholes dating to this period that some form of timber structure was built within the enclosure during the early 3rd millennium BC .
Further standing timbers were placed at the northeast entrance and a parallel alignment of posts ran inwards from the southern entrance .
The postholes are smaller than the Aubrey Holes , being only around in diameter and are much less regularly spaced .
The bank was purposely reduced in height and the ditch continued to silt up .
At least twenty-five of the Aubrey Holes are known to have contained later , intrusive , cremation burials dating to the two centuries after the monument 's inception .
It seems that whatever the holes ' initial function , it changed to become a funerary one during Phase 2 .
Thirty further cremations were placed in the enclosure 's ditch and at other points within the monument , mostly in the eastern half .
Stonehenge is therefore interpreted as functioning as an enclosed cremation cemetery at this time , the earliest known cremation cemetery in the British Isles .
Fragments of unburnt human bone have also been found in the ditch fill .
Late Neolithic grooved ware pottery has been found in connection with the features from this phase providing dating evidence .
Stonehenge 3 I -LRB- ca. 2600 BC -RRB-
Stonehenge from the heelstone in 2007 with the ` Slaughter Stone ' in the foreground
Archaeological excavation has indicated that around 2600 BC , timber was abandoned in favour of stone , and two concentric arrays of holes -LRB- the Q and R Holes -RRB- were dug in the centre of the site .
These stone sockets are only partly known -LRB- hence on present evidence are sometimes described as forming ‘crescents’ -RRB- , however they could be the remains of a double ring .
Again , there is little firm dating evidence for this phase .
The holes held up to 80 standing stones -LRB- shown blue on the plan -RRB- only 43 of which can be traced today .
The bluestones -LRB- some of which are made of dolerite , an igneous rock -RRB- , were thought for much of the 20th century to have been transported by humans from the Preseli Hills , away in modern day Pembrokeshire in Wales .
A newer theory is that they were brought from glacial deposits much nearer the site , which had been carried down from the northern side of the Preselis to southern England by the Irish Sea Glacier .
Other standing stones may well have been small sarsens , used later as lintels .
The stones , which weighed about four tons , consisted mostly of spotted Ordovician dolerite but included examples of rhyolite , tuff and volcanic and calcareous ash ; in total around 20 different rock types are represented .
Each monolith measures around in height , between 1 m and 1.5 m -LRB- 3.3-4.9 ft -RRB- wide and around thick .
What was to become known as the Altar Stone -LRB- 1 -RRB- , is almost certainly derived from either Carmarthenshire or the Brecon Beacons and may have stood as a single large monolith .
Plan of the central stone structure today .
After Johnson 2008
The north eastern entrance was also widened at this time with the result that it precisely matched the direction of the midsummer sunrise and midwinter sunset of the period .
This phase of the monument was abandoned unfinished however , the small standing stones were apparently removed and the Q and R holes purposefully backfilled .
Even so , the monument appears to have eclipsed the site at Avebury in importance towards the end of this phase .
The Heelstone -LRB- 5 -RRB- , a Tertiary sandstone , may also have been erected outside the north eastern entrance during this period although it can not be securely dated and may have been installed at any time in phase 3 .
At first , a second stone , now no longer visible , joined it .
Two , or possibly three , large portal stones were set up just inside the north eastern entrance of which only one , the fallen Slaughter Stone -LRB- 4 -RRB- , long , now remains .
Other features loosely dated to phase 3 include the four Station Stones -LRB- 6 -RRB- , two of which stood atop mounds -LRB- 2 and 3 -RRB- .
The mounds are known as ` barrows ' although they do not contain burials .
Stonehenge Avenue , -LRB- 10 -RRB- , a parallel pair of ditches and banks leading to the River Avon was also added .
Two ditches similar to Heelstone Ditch circling the Heelstone , which was by then reduced to a single monolith , were later dug around the Station Stones .
Stonehenge 3 II -LRB- 2600 BC to 2400 BC -RRB-
The next major phase of activity saw 30 enormous Oligocene - Miocene sarsen stones -LRB- shown grey on the plan -RRB- brought to the site .
They may have come from a quarry around north of Stonehenge , on the Marlborough Downs , or they may have been collected from a `` litter '' of sarsens on the chalk downs , closer to hand .
The stones were dressed and fashioned with mortise and tenon joints before 30 were erected as a diameter circle of standing stones , with a ring of 30 lintel stones resting on top .
The lintels were fitted to one another using another woodworking method , the tongue and groove joint .
Each standing stone was around high , wide and weighed around 25 tons .
Each had clearly been worked with the final effect in mind ; the orthostats widen slightly towards the top in order that their perspective remains constant as they rise up from the ground while the lintel stones curve slightly to continue the circular appearance of the earlier monument .
The sides of the stones that face inwards are smoother and more finely worked than the sides that face outwards .
The average thickness of these stones is and the average distance between them is .
A total of 74 stones would have been needed to complete the circle and unless some of the sarsens were removed from the site , it would seem that the ring was left incomplete .
Of the lintel stones , they are each around , wide and thick .
The tops of the lintels are above the ground .
Within this circle stood five trilithons of dressed sarsen stone arranged in a horseshoe shape across with its open end facing north east .
These huge stones , ten uprights and five lintels , weigh up to 50 tons each and were again linked using complex jointing .
They are arranged symmetrically ; the smallest pair of trilithons were around tall , the next pair a little higher and the largest , single trilithon in the south west corner would have been tall .
Only one upright from the Great Trilithon still stands ; is visible and a further is below ground .
Graffiti on the sarsen stones .
Below are ancient carvings of a dagger and an axe
The images of a ` dagger ' and 14 ` axe-heads ' have been recorded carved on one of the sarsens , known as stone 53 .
Further axe-head carvings have been seen on the outer faces of stones known as numbers 3 , 4 , and 5 .
They are difficult to date but are morphologically similar to later Bronze Age weapons ; recent laser scanning work on the carvings supports this interpretation .
The pair of trilithons in north east are smallest , measuring around in height and the largest is the trilithon in the south west of the horseshoe is almost tall .
This ambitious phase is radiocarbon dated to between 2600 and 2400 BC .
This is slightly before two sets of burials discovered to the west in Amesbury -LRB- the Amesbury Archer found in 2002 , and the Boscombe Bowmen discovered in 2003 -RRB- as well as the Stonehenge Archer whose body was discovered in the outer ditch of the monument in 1978 .
At a similar time a large timber circle and another avenue were constructed overlooking the River Avon away at Durrington Walls .
Opposing the solar alignments at Stonehenge , the circle was orientated towards the rising sun on the midwinter solstice , whilst the Avenue led from the river to the circle on an alignment to the setting sun on the summer solstice .
Evidence of huge fires on the banks of the Avon between the two avenues also suggests that both circles were linked , and perhaps formed a procession route used on the longest and shortest days of the year .
Parker Pearson speculates that the wooden circle at Durrington Walls was the centre of a ` land of the living ' , whilst the stone circle represented a ` land of the dead ' .
The Avon would have served as a journey between the two .
Stonehenge 3 III
Later in the Bronze Age , the bluestones appear to have been re-erected for the first time , although the exact details of this period are still unclear .
They were placed within the outer sarsen circle and at this time may have been trimmed in some way .
A few have timber working-style cuts in them like the sarsens themselves , suggesting they may have been linked with lintels and part of a larger structure during this phase .
Stonehenge 3 IV -LRB- 2280 BC to 1930 BC -RRB-
This phase saw further rearrangement of the bluestones as they were placed in a circle between the two settings of sarsens and in an oval in the very centre .
Some archaeologists argue that some of the bluestones in this period were part of a second group brought from Wales .
All the stones were well-spaced uprights without any of the linking lintels inferred in Stonehenge 3 III .
The Altar Stone may have been moved within the oval and stood vertically .
Although this would seem the most impressive phase of work , Stonehenge 3 IV was rather shabbily built compared to its immediate predecessors , as the newly re-installed bluestones were not at all well founded and began to fall over .
However , only minor changes were made after this phase .
Stonehenge 3 IV dates from 2280 to 1930 BC .
Stonehenge 3 V -LRB- 2280 BC to 1930 BC -RRB-
Soon afterwards , the north eastern section of the Phase 3 IV Bluestone circle was removed , creating a horseshoe-shaped setting termed the Bluestone Horseshoe .
This mirrored the shape of the central sarsen Trilithons and dates from 2270 to 1930 BC .
This phase is contemporary with the famous Seahenge site in Norfolk .
After the monument -LRB- 1600 BC on -RRB-
The last known construction at Stonehenge was about 1600 BC -LRB- see ` Y and Z Holes ` below -RRB- , and the last usage of it was likely during the Iron Age .
Roman coins and medieval artefacts have all been found in or around the monument but it is unknown if the monument was in continuous use throughout prehistory and beyond — or exactly how it would have been used .
Notable is the late 7th-6th century BC large arcing Scroll Trench which deepens E-NE towards Heelstone , and the construction of the massive Iron Age hillfort Vespasian 's Camp built alongside the Avenue near the Avon .
The burial of a decapitated 7th century Saxon man was excavated from Stonehenge .
The site was known by scholars during the Middle Ages and since then it has been studied and adopted by numerous different groups .
16th Century to present
The sun rising over Stonehenge on the summer solstice on 21 June , 2005
16th to 20th centuries
Stonehenge has changed ownership several times since King Henry VIII acquired Amesbury Abbey and its surrounding lands .
In 1540 Henry gave the estate to the Earl of Hertford .
It subsequently passed to Lord Carleton and then the Marquis of Queensbury .
The Antrobus family of Cheshire bought the estate in 1824 , but sold it in 1915 after their last heir was killed serving in France during the First World War .
The auction by Knight Frank & Rutley estate agents in Salisbury was held on 21 September and included `` Lot 15 .
Stonehenge with about 30 acres , 2 rods , 37 perches of adjoining downland . ''
-LSB- c. 12.4365 ha -RSB- Cecil Chubb bought Stonehenge for £6,600 and gave it to the nation three years later .
Although it has been speculated that he purchased it at the suggestion of — or even as a present for — his wife , he in fact bought it on a whim as he believed a local man should be the new owner .
1920s onwards
In the late 1920s a nation-wide appeal was launched to save Stonehenge from the encroachment of modern buildings that had begun to appear around it .
During World War I an aerodrome had been built on the down just west of the circle , and in the dry valley at Stonehenge Bottom a main road junction had appeared , with several cottages and a cafe .
In 1928 the land around the stones was purchased with the appeal donations , and given to the National Trust in order to preserve it .
The buildings were removed -LRB- although the roads were not -RRB- , and the land returned to agriculture .
More recently the land has been part of a grassland reversion scheme , returning the surrounding fields to native chalk grassland .
In 2002 a public poll voted Stonehenge as one of the Seven Wonders of Britain , alongside Big Ben , the Eden Project , Hadrian 's Wall , the London Eye , Windsor Castle , and York Minster .
Neopaganism
Stonehenge is a place of pilgrimage for neo-druids , and for certain others following pagan or neo-pagan beliefs .
The midsummer sunrise began attracting modern visitors in the 1870s , with the first record of recreated Druidic practices dating to 1905 when the Ancient Order of Druids enacted a ceremony .
Despite efforts by archaeologists and historians to stress the differences between the Iron Age Druidic religion and the much older monument , Stonehenge has become increasingly , almost inextricably , associated with British Druidism , Neopaganism and New Age philosophy .
Between 1972 and 1984 , Stonehenge was the site of a free festival .
After the Battle of the Beanfield in 1985 this use of the site was stopped for several years , and currently ritual use of Stonehenge is carefully controlled .
Setting and Access
As motorised traffic increased the setting of the monument began to be affected by the proximity of the two roads on either side of it — the A344 to Shrewton on the north side , and the A303 to Winterbourne Stoke to the south .
Plans to upgrade the A303 and remove it from the view of the stones have been considered since it became a World Heritage Site , but the controversy surrounding expensive re-routings of a road have led to the scheme being cancelled on multiple occasions .
On 6 December 2007 it was announced that extensive plans to build a tunnel under the landscape and create a permanent visitors centre had been cancelled .
On 13 May 2009 the government gave approval for a £25 million scheme to create a smaller visitors centre and close the A344 , although this is dependent on funding and planning permission .
When Stonehenge became open to the public it was possible to walk amongst and even climb on the stones .
However this ended in 1977 when the stones were roped off as a result of serious erosion .
Visitors are no longer permitted to touch the stones , but merely walk around the monument from a short distance .
English Heritage does however permit access during the summer and winter solstice , and the spring and autumn equinox .
Additionally , visitors can make special bookings to access the stones throughout the year .
The current access situation and the proximity of the two roads has drawn widespread criticism , highlighted by a 2006 National Geographic survey .
In the survey of conditions at 94 leading World Heritage Sites , 400 conservation and tourism experts ranked Stonehenge 75th in the list of destinations , declaring it to be `` in moderate trouble '' .
Function and construction
Stonehenge was produced by a culture with no written language , and at great historical remove from the first cultures that did leave written records .
Many aspects of Stonehenge remain subject to debate .
This multiplicity of theories , some of them very colourful , is often called the `` mystery of Stonehenge . ''
There is little or no direct evidence for the construction techniques used by the Stonehenge builders .
Over the years , various authors have suggested that supernatural or anachronistic methods were used , usually asserting that the stones were impossible to move otherwise .
However , conventional techniques using Neolithic technology have been demonstrably effective at moving and placing stones this size .
Proposed functions for the site include usage as an astronomical observatory , or as a religious site .
Other theories have advanced supernatural or symbolic explanations for the construction .
More recently two major new theories have been proposed .
Mike Parker Pearson , head of the Stonehenge Riverside Project , has suggested that Stonehenge was part of a ritual landscape and was joined to Durrington Walls by their corresponding avenues and the River Avon .
The area around Durrington Walls henge was a land of the living , whilst Stonehenge was a domain of the dead .
A journey along the Avon to reach Stonehenge was part of a ritual passage from life to death , to celebrate past ancestors and the recently deceased .
On the other hand , Geoffery Wainwright , president of the Society of Antiquaries of London , and Timothy Darvill of Bournemouth University have suggested that Stonehenge was a place of healing – the primeval equivalent of Lourdes .
They argue that this accounts for the high number of burials in the area and for the evidence of trauma deformity in some of the graves .
However they do concede that the site was probably multifunctional and used for ancestor worship as well .
Folklore
The Heelstone
`` Friar’s Heel '' or the `` Sunday Stone ''
The Heel Stone was once known as `` Friar 's Heel '' .
A folk tale , which can not be dated earlier than the seventeenth century , relates the origin of the name of this stone :
The Devil bought the stones from a woman in Ireland , wrapped them up , and brought them to Salisbury plain .
One of the stones fell into the Avon , the rest were carried to the plain .
The Devil then cried out , `` No-one will ever find out how these stones came here ! ''
A friar replied , `` That’s what you think ! , '' whereupon the Devil threw one of the stones at him and struck him on the heel .
The stone stuck in the ground and is still there .
Some claim `` Friar 's Heel '' is a corruption of `` Freyja 's He-ol '' or `` Freyja Sul '' , from the Nordic goddess Freyja and the Welsh word for way or Sunday , respectively , or the name may simply imply that the stone heels , or leans .
The name is not unique ; there was a monolith with the same name recorded in the 19th century by antiquarian Charles Warne at Long Bredy in Dorset .
Arthurian legend
A giant helps Merlin build Stonehenge .
From a manuscript of the Roman de Brut by Wace in the British Library -LRB- Egerton 3028 -RRB- .
This is the oldest known depiction of Stonehenge .
Stonehenge is also mentioned within Arthurian legend .
Geoffrey of Monmouth said that Merlin the wizard directed its removal from Ireland , where it had been constructed on Mount Killaraus by Giants , who brought the stones from Africa .
After it had been rebuilt near Amesbury , Geoffrey further narrates how first Ambrosius Aurelianus , then Uther Pendragon , and finally Constantine III , were buried inside the ring of stones .
In many places in his Historia Regum Britanniae Geoffrey mixes British legend and his own imagination ; it is intriguing that he connects Ambrosius Aurelianus with this prehistoric monument , seeing how there is place-name evidence to connect Ambrosius with nearby Amesbury .
According to Geoffrey of Monmouth , the rocks of Stonehenge were healing rocks which Giants brought from Africa to Ireland for their healing properties .
These rocks were called The Giant 's Dance .
Aurelius Ambrosias -LRB- 5th century -RRB- , wishing to erect a memorial to the nobles -LRB- 3000 -RRB- who had died in battle with the Saxons and were buried at Salisbury , chose -LRB- at Merlin 's advice -RRB- Stonehenge to be their monument .
So the King sent Merlin , Uther Pendragon -LRB- Arthur 's father -RRB- , and 15,000 knights to Ireland to retrieve the rocks .
They slew 7,000 Irish .
As the knights tried to move the rocks with ropes and force , they failed .
Then Merlin , using `` gear '' and skill , easily dismantled the stones and sent them over to Britain , where Stonehenge was dedicated .
Shortly after , Aurelius died and was buried within the Stonehenge monument , or `` The Giants ' Ring of Stonehenge '' .
Archaeological research and restoration
17th century depiction of Stonehenge
An early photograph of Stonehenge taken July 1877
The monument from a similar angle in 2008 showing the extent of reconstruction
Throughout recorded history Stonehenge and its surrounding monuments have attracted attention from antiquarians and archaeologists .
John Aubrey was one of the first to examine the site with a scientific eye in 1666 , and recorded in his plan of the monument the pits that now bear his name .
William Stukeley continued Aubrey’s work in the early 18th century , but took an interest in the surrounding monuments as well , identifying -LRB- somewhat incorrectly -RRB- the Cursus and the Avenue .
He also began the excavation of many of the barrows in the area , and it was his interpretation of the landscape that associated it with the Druids Stukeley was in fact so fascinated with Druids that he originally named Disc Barrows as Druids Barrows .
The most accurate early plan of Stonehenge was that made by Bath architect John Wood in 1740 .
His original annotated survey has recently been computer redrawn and published .
Importantly Wood’s plan was made before the collapse of the southwest Trilithon -LRB- which fell in 1797 ; restored 1958 -RRB- .
William Cunnington was the next to tackle the area in the early 19th century , excavating some 24 barrows before digging in and around the stones , discovering charred wood , animal bones , pottery and urns .
He also identified the hole in which the Slaughter Stone once stood .
At the same time Richard Colt Hoare began his activities , excavating some 379 barrows on Salisbury Plain before working with Cunnington and William Coxe on some 200 in the area around the Stones .
To alert future diggers to their work they were careful to leave initialled metal tokens in each barrow they opened .
In 1877 Charles Darwin dabbled in archaeology at the stones , experimenting with the rate at which remains sink into the earth for his book The Formation of Vegetable Mould Through the Action of Worms .
William Gowland oversaw the first major restoration of the monument in 1901 – the straightening and concrete setting of sarsen stone number 56 which was in danger of falling .
Unfortunately in straightening it he also moved it about half a metre from its original position .
He also took the opportunity to further excavate the monument at the same time in what was the most scientific dig to date , revealing more about the erection of the stones than the previous 100 years of work .
During the 1920 restoration William Hawley , who had excavated nearby Old Sarum , excavated the base of six stones being restored as well as the outer ditch .
He also located a bottle of port in the slaughter stone socket left by Cunnington , helped to rediscover Aubrey 's pits inside the bank and located the Y and Z Holes -LRB- concentric circular holes outside the Sarsen Circle -RRB- .
Richard Atkinson , Stuart Piggott and John F. S. Stone re-excavated much of Hawley 's work in the 40s and 50s , and discovered the carved axes and daggers on the Sarsen Stones .
Atkinson 's work was instrumental in the understanding of the three major phases of the monument 's construction .
In 1958 the stones were restored again , using concrete settings to re-erect three of the standing sarsens .
The very last restoration was carried out in 1963 when stone 23 of the Sarsen Circle fell over and was once more re-erected , and the opportunity taken to concrete three more stones .
Later archaeologists , including Christopher Chippindale of the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology , University of Cambridge and Brian Edwards of the University of the West of England campaigned to give the public more knowledge of the various restorations and in 2004 English Heritage included pictures of the works in progress in its new book Stonehenge : A History in Photographs .
In 1966 and 1967 , in advance of a new car park being built at the site , the area of land immediately northwest of the stones was excavated by Faith and Lance Vatcher .
They discovered the Mesolithic postholes dating from between 7 and 8,000 BC , as well as a 10m length of a palisade ditch – a V cut ditch into which timber posts had been inserted that remained there until they rotted away .
Subsequent aerial archaeology suggests that this ditch runs from the west to the north of Stonehenge , near the avenue .
Excavations were once again carried out in 1978 by Atkinson and John Evans during which they discovered the remains of the Stonehenge Archer from the outer ditch , and in 1979 rescue archaeology was needed alongside the Heel Stone after a cable-laying ditch was mistakenly dug on the roadside , revealing a new stone hole next to the Heel Stone .
In the early 1980’s Julian Richards led the Stonehenge Environs Project , a detailed study of the surrounding landscape .
The project was able to successfully date such features as the Lesser Cursus , Coneybury henge and several other smaller features .
More recent excavations include Mike Parker Pearson 's Stonehenge Riverside Project - a series of digs held between 2003 and 2008 .
This project mainly investigated other monuments in the landscape and their relationship with the stones - notably Durrington Walls where another ‘Avenue’ leading to the river Avon was discovered .
In April 2008 Professor Tim Darvill of the University of Bournemouth and Professor Geoff Wainwright of the Society of Antiquaries began another dig inside the Stone circle to retrieve dateable fragments of the original bluestone pillars .
They were able to date the erection of some bluestones to 2300BC , although this may not reflect the earliest erection of stones at Stonehenge .
They also discovered organic material from 7000 BC , which , along with the Mesolithic postholes , adds support for the site having been in use at least 4000 years before Stonehenge was started .
In August and September 2008 , as part of the Riverside Project Julian Richards and Mike Pitts excavated Aubrey Hole 7 , removing the cremated remains from several Aubrey Holes that had been excavated by Hawley in the 1920s , and re-interred in 1935 .
See also
Other Monuments in the Stonehenge Ritual Landscape
Bush Barrow
Durrington Walls
Normanton Down Barrows
Robin Hood 's Ball
Stonehenge Cursus
The Lesser Cursus
Vespasian 's Camp
Woodhenge
About Stonehenge
Archaeoastronomy and Stonehenge
Battle of the Beanfield
Excavations at Stonehenge
Theories about Stonehenge
Stonehenge replicas and derivatives
Stone circle
Stonehenge Landscape
Cultural depictions of Stonehenge
Stonehenge Free Festival
Stonehenge road tunnel
Stonehenge Riverside Project
Similar Sites
Arkaim
Avebury
European Megalithic Culture
Goloring
Goseck circle
The Megalithic Portal
Ring of Brodgar
Zorats Karer
List of megalithic sites
Museums with collections from the World Heritage Site
Wiltshire Heritage Museum
Salisbury and South Wiltshire Museum
References
Bibliography
Atkinson , R J C , Stonehenge -LRB- Penguin Books , 1956 -RRB-
Bender , B , Stonehenge : Making Space -LRB- Berg Publishers , 1998 -RRB-
Burl , A , Prehistoric Stone Circles -LRB- Shire , 2001 -RRB- -LRB- In Burl 's Stonehenge -LRB- Constable , 2006 -RRB- , he notes , cf. the meaning of the name in paragraph two above , that `` the Saxons called the ring ` the hanging stones ' , as though they were gibbets . '' -RRB-
Chippendale , C , Stonehenge Complete -LRB- Thames and Hudson , London , 2004 -RRB- ISBN 0500284679
Chippindale , C , et al. , Who owns Stonehenge ?
-LRB- B T Batsford Ltd , 1990 -RRB-
Cleal , R. M. J. , Walker , K. E. & Montague , R. , Stonehenge in its landscape -LRB- English Heritage , London , 1995 -RRB-
Cunliffe , B , & Renfrew , C , Science and Stonehenge -LRB- The British Academy 92 , Oxford University Press , 1997 -RRB-
Godsell , Andrew `` Stonehenge : Older Than the Centuries '' in `` Legends of British History '' -LRB- 2008 -RRB-
Hall , R , Leather , K , & Dobson , G , Stonehenge Aotearoa -LRB- Awa Press , 2005 -RRB-
Hawley , Lt-Col W , The Excavations at Stonehenge .
-LRB- The Antiquaries Journal 1 , Oxford University Press , 19-41 -RRB- .
1921 .
Hawley , Lt-Col W , Second Report on the Excavations at Stonehenge .
-LRB- The Antiquaries Journal 2 , Oxford University Press , 1922 -RRB-
Hawley , Lt-Col W , Third Report on the Excavations at Stonehenge .
-LRB- The Antiquaries Journal 3 , Oxford University Press , 1923 -RRB-
Hawley , Lt-Col W , Fourth Report on the Excavations at Stonehenge .
-LRB- The Antiquaries Journal 4 , Oxford University Press , 1923 -RRB-
Hawley , Lt-Col W , Report on the Excavations at Stonehenge during the season of 1923 .
-LRB- The Antiquaries Journal 5 , Oxford University Press , 1925 -RRB-
Hawley , Lt-Col W , Report on the Excavations at Stonehenge during the season of 1924 .
-LRB- The Antiquaries Journal 6 , Oxford University Press , 1926 -RRB-
Hawley , Lt-Col W , Report on the Excavations at Stonehenge during 1925 and 1926 .
-LRB- The Antiquaries Journal 8 , Oxford University Press , 1928 -RRB-
Hutton , R , From Universal Bond to Public Free For All -LRB- British Archaeology 83 , 2005 -RRB-
John , Brian , `` The Bluestone Enigma : Stonehenge , Preseli and the Ice Age '' -LRB- Greencroft Books , 2008 -RRB- ISBN 978-0-905559-89-6
Johnson , Anthony , Solving Stonehenge : The New Key to an Ancient Enigma -LRB- Thames & Hudson , 2008 -RRB- ISBN 978-0-500-05155-9
Legg , Rodney , `` Stonehenge Antiquaries '' -LRB- Dorset Publishing Company , 1986 -RRB-
Mooney , J , Encyclopedia of the Bizarre -LRB- Black Dog & Leventhal Publishers , 2002 -RRB-
Newall , R S , Stonehenge , Wiltshire -Ancient monuments and historic buildings- -LRB- Her Majesty 's Stationery Office , London , 1959 -RRB-
North , J , Stonehenge : Ritual Origins and Astronomy -LRB- HarperCollins , 1997 -RRB-
Pitts , M , Hengeworld -LRB- Arrow , London , 2001 -RRB-
Pitts , M W , On the Road to Stonehenge : Report on Investigations beside the A344 in 1968 , 1979 and 1980 -LRB- Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society 48 , 1982 -RRB-
Richards , J , English Heritage Book of Stonehenge -LRB- B T Batsford Ltd , 1991 -RRB-
Richards , J Stonehenge : A History in Photographs -LRB- English Heritage , London , 2004 -RRB-
Stone , J F S , Wessex Before the Celts -LRB- Frederick A Praeger Publishers , 1958 -RRB-
Worthington , A , Stonehenge : Celebration and Subversion -LRB- Alternative Albion , 2004 -RRB-
English Heritage : Stonehenge : Historical Background
External links
Stonehenge English Heritage - General information
Stonehenge Landscape The National Trust - Information about the surrounding area .
Stonehenge Today and Yesterday By Frank Stevens , at Project Gutenberg .
The History of Stonehenge BBC animation of the monument 's construction .
Ancient Places TV : HD Video of Stonehenge
Nature Precedings — Pegs and Ropes Geometry at Stonehenge
Stonehenge , a Temple Restor 'd to the British Druids By William Stukeley , at Sacred Texts .
Stonehenge , and Other British Monuments Astronomically Considered By Norman Lockyer , at Sacred Texts .
Council for British Archaeology English Heritage press release about the monument 's reconstruction .
Stonehenge Laser Scans Wessex Archaeology information about the scanning of the Sarsen carvings .
Glaciers and the bluestones of Wales British Archaeology essay about the bluestones as glacial deposits .
Wiltshire Heritage Museum and Salisbury and South Wiltshire Museum The two Museums that hold collections from the Stonehenge World Heritage Site .
Stonehenge 20th Century Excavations Databases An English Heritage commissioned report by Wessex Archaeology on the 20th Century excavations .

English Setter
The English Setter is a breed of dog .
It is part of the Setter family , which includes red Irish Setters , Irish Red and White Setters , and black-and-tan Gordon Setters .
The English Setter is a gun dog , bred for a mix of endurance and athleticism .
Description
Appearance
The coat is flat with light feathering of long length or short length depending on the type .
The bench or show type has a long , flowing coat that requires regular grooming .
The field or hunting type has a shorter coat that requires less grooming .
The various speckled coat colours when occurring in English Setters are referred to as belton ; valid combinations are white with black -LRB- blue belton -RRB- , white with orange flecks -LRB- orange belton -RRB- -RRB- , White with orange flecks and lighter nose is lemon belton , white with liver flecks -LRB- Liver Belton -RRB- or `` Tricolour '' which is blue or liver belton with Tan markings on the face , chest and legs .
Temperament
This breed 's standard temperament is best described as a `` Gentleman by Nature '' .
However , it can also be strong-willed and mischievous .
English Setters are energetic , people-oriented dogs , that are well suited to families who can give them attention and activity , or to working with a hunter , where they have a job to do .
They are active dogs outside that need plenty of exercise in a good sized fenced-in yard .
Inside they tend to be lower energy and love to be couch potatoes and lap dogs that love to cuddle .
Many are good around children .
Portrait of an English Setter
They rank 37th in Stanley Coren ` s The Intelligence of Dogs , being of above average working/obedience intelligence .
English Setters are very intelligent and can be trained to perform about any task another breed can do , with the exception of herding .
However , they are not always easy to train , as their natural bird instinct tends to distract them in outdoor environments .
Their temperament is considered a soft one .
Therefore they are very sensitive to criticism , and could be unwilling to repeat a behaviour out of fear to disappoint the trainer .
Positive reinforcement training methods therefore work best for English Setters .
Health
A relatively healthy breed , Setters have few genetic problems but some problems occasionally occur .
Canine hip dysplasia , elbow dysplasia , congenital deafness , and canine hypothyroidism are some of the more well-known ailments that can affect this dog .
A specific form of cancer is also common in older members of the breed .
Some lines are prone to allergies including food allergies .
Life expectancy is between 10-12 years , though with proper medical care 13 to 15 years is not out of the question .
History
The English Setter was originally bred to set or point upland game birds .
From the best available information , it appears that the English Setter was a trained bird dog in England more than 400 years ago .
There is evidence that the English Setter originated in crosses of the Spanish Pointer , large Water Spaniel , and Springer Spaniel , which combined to produce an excellent bird dog with a high degree of proficiency in finding and pointing game in open country .
The modern English Setter owes its appearance to Mr. Edward Laverack -LRB- 1800-1877 -RRB- , who developed his own strain of the breed by careful breeding during the 19th century in England and to another Englishman , Mr. R. Purcell Llewellin -LRB- 1840-1925 -RRB- , who based his strain upon Laverack 's and developed the working Setter .
Today , you still hear the term Llewellin Setter , but this is not a separate breed , they are however a completely separate and pure bloodline .
Field-bred English Setters are often mistakably referred to as `` Llewellin '' , but only DNA can tell the difference .
A four-month-old Llewellin Setter .
With time , Laverack bred successfully to produce beautiful representatives of the breed .
The first show for English Setters was held in 1859 at Newcastle upon Tyne .
The breed 's popularity soared across England as shows became more and more widespread .
Not long after , the first English Setters were brought to North America , including those that began the now-famous Llewellin strain recorded in the writing of Dr. William A Burette .
From this group of dogs came the foundation of the field-trial setter in America , `` Count Noble '' , who is currently mounted in the Carnegie Museum at Pittsburgh .
At present , the English is one of the most popular and elegant sporting breeds , often grouped with its cousins , the Irish and Gordon Setters .
The field type & show type English Setter look very different , even though they are the same breed .
Field type setters are often smaller and are seen with less feathering and usually more distinctive spotting than show type setters .
Both traits are beneficial in the field : less feathering makes getting burrs out of their coat easier and the spotting makes them easier to see in the field .
For this reason , in the English Setter breed , compared to other breeds , there are very few Dual Champions -LRB- dogs that have completed their show & field championship titles -RRB- .
English Setters have been among the premier breeds since the formation of the American Kennel Club .
Along with eight other Sporting breeds , they were among the first pure breeds accepted by the Club in 1878 .
In fact , the very first dog registered with the AKC was an English Setter named Adonis .
Miscellaneous
The name Llewellin Setter is given to a certain breed of Setters bred by R.L. Purcell Llewellin to be perfect for foot hunting and early field trials .
The breed was very successfully advertised even though losing to Joe , Jr. in the great match race between the Cambell -LRB- George M. Cambell of Springhill , Tennessee -RRB- native English Setter strain and the blue blooded Llewellin Setter Gladstone of an American strain of Llewellin Setter .
Because of the major change in American field trials to big , wide running field trials their field trail performance began to decline against the bigger running pointers after 1914 when pointer Commanche Frank won the National Bird Dog Championship .
But the obsession with the Llewellin breed as champion foot hunting bird dogs and excellent family companions occurs at the same time pointers began to dominate wide ranging field trials .
The Llewellin Setter breed is making a huge come back with the loss of large areas to hunt , leaving hunters the need for a closer ranging hunting dog and family companion .
There are basically two lines of Llewellin Setters recognized today .
They are the `` American Llewellins '' developed from lines of early English imports from the late 1800s and early 1900s that were mainly developed by American field trial breeders .
The second is the `` Dashing Bondhu '' line developed personally by R.L. Purcell Llewellin himself for 50 years and with William Humphrey also in England for 38 more years and Fr. Brannon in Ireland for 30 plus years .
These were not imported to America until the 1960s and ` 80s .
The breeding of these pure Dashing Bondhus in America resulted in producing the most famous of all Llewellin Setters known today .
The famous `` Henry Princeof Paws '' , aka `` Hank '' fame of the Outdoor Life Network ` OLN ' Channel series known as Hunting with Hank .
Aside from the separately recognized Llewellin Setter breed with FDSB registry in 1902 and with the International Progressive Dog Breeders ' Alliance -LRB- IPDBA -RRB- registry in 1996 , there are many other unrecognized regional strains of English setters .
One such strain , the Newfoundland Setter , was accomplished by breeding English , Irish and Gordon setters together over a period of hundreds of years .
The result is a setter which is almost perfectly adapted to the local terrain and can display the visual traits/colours from any of the setter types .
External links
English Setter Association
The National Llewellin Setter Association
Pure Llewellin Setter Photos
English Setter Rescue UK
English Setter Association of America
Another Chance for English Setters USA
Above & Beyond English Setter Rescue USA
Keepsake Setter Rescue USA
Illinois Birddog Rescue USA-Midwest
Notes

Deep Web
The deep Web -LRB- also called Deepnet , the invisible Web , dark Web or the hidden Web -RRB- refers to World Wide Web content that is not part of the surface Web , which is indexed by standard search engines .
Mike Bergman , credited with coining the phrase , has said that searching on the Internet today can be compared to dragging a net across the surface of the ocean ; a great deal may be caught in the net , but there is a wealth of information that is deep and therefore missed .
Most of the Web 's information is buried far down on dynamically generated sites , and standard search engines do not find it .
Traditional search engines can not `` see '' or retrieve content in the deep Web – those pages do not exist until they are created dynamically as the result of a specific search .
The deep Web is several orders of magnitude larger than the surface Web .
Naming
Bergman , in a seminal , early paper on the deep Web published in the Journal of Electronic Publishing , mentioned that Jill Ellsworth used the term invisible Web in 1994 to refer to websites that are not registered with any search engine .
Bergman cited a January 1996 article by Frank Garcia : `` It would be a site that 's possibly reasonably designed , but they didn't bother to register it with any of the search engines .
So , no one can find them !
You're hidden .
I call that the invisible Web . ''
Another early use of the term invisible Web was by Bruce Mount and Matthew B. Koll of Personal Library Software , in a description of the @ 1 deep Web tool found in a December 1996 press release .
The first use of the specific term deep Web , now generally accepted , occurred in the aforementioned 2001 Bergman study .
Size
In 2000 , it was estimated that the deep Web contained approximately 7,500 terabytes of data and 550 billion individual documents .
Estimates based on extrapolations from a study done at University of California , Berkeley , show that the deep Web consists of about 91,000 terabytes .
By contrast , the surface Web -LRB- which is easily reached by search engines -RRB- is only about 167 terabytes ; the Library of Congress , in 1997 , was estimated to have perhaps 3,000 terabytes .
Deep resources
Deep Web resources may be classified into one or more of the following categories :
Dynamic content : dynamic pages which are returned in response to a submitted query or accessed only through a form , especially if open-domain input elements -LRB- such as text fields -RRB- are used ; such fields are hard to navigate without domain knowledge .
Unlinked content : pages which are not linked to by other pages , which may prevent Web crawling programs from accessing the content .
This content is referred to as pages without backlinks -LRB- or inlinks -RRB- .
Private Web : sites that require registration and login -LRB- password-protected resources -RRB- .
Contextual Web : pages with content varying for different access contexts -LRB- e.g. , ranges of client IP addresses or previous navigation sequence -RRB- .
Limited access content : sites that limit access to their pages in a technical way -LRB- e.g. , using the Robots Exclusion Standard , CAPTCHAs , or no-cache Pragma HTTP headers which prohibit search engines from browsing them and creating cached copies -RRB- .
Scripted content : pages that are only accessible through links produced by JavaScript as well as content dynamically downloaded from Web servers via Flash or AJAX solutions .
Non-HTML/text content : textual content encoded in multimedia -LRB- image or video -RRB- files or specific file formats not handled by search engines .
Accessing
To discover content on the Web , search engines use web crawlers that follow hyperlinks .
This technique is ideal for discovering resources on the surface Web but is often ineffective at finding deep Web resources .
For example , these crawlers do not attempt to find dynamic pages that are the result of database queries due to the infinite number of queries that are possible .
It has been noted that this can be -LRB- partially -RRB- overcome by providing links to query results , but this could unintentionally inflate the popularity -LRB- e.g. , PageRank -RRB- for a member of the deep Web .
One way to access the deep Web is via federated search based search engines .
Search tools such as Science.gov are being designed to retrieve information from the deep Web .
These tools identify and interact with searchable databases , aiming to provide access to deep Web content .
Another way to explore the deep Web is by using human crawlers instead of algorithmic crawlers .
In this paradigm , referred to as Web harvesting , humans find interesting links of the deep Web that algorithmic crawlers can't find .
This human-based computation technique to discover the deep Web has been used by the StumbleUpon service since February 2002 .
In 2005 , Yahoo ! made a small part of the deep Web searchable by releasing Yahoo ! Subscriptions .
This search engine searches through a few subscription-only Web sites .
Some subscription websites display their full content to search engine robots so they will show up in user searches , but then show users a login or subscription page when they click a link from the search engine results page .
Crawling the deep Web
Researchers have been exploring how the deep Web can be crawled in an automatic fashion .
In 2001 , Sriram Raghavan and Hector Garcia-Molina presented an architectural model for a hidden-Web crawler that used key terms provided by users or collected from the query interfaces to query a Web form and crawl the deep Web resources .
Alexandros Ntoulas , Petros Zerfos , and Junghoo Cho of UCLA created a hidden-Web crawler that automatically generated meaningful queries to issue against search forms .
Their crawler generated promising results , but the problem is far from being solved , as the authors recognized .
Another effort is DeepPeep , a project of the University of Utah sponsored by the National Science Foundation , which gathered hidden-Web sources -LRB- Web forms -RRB- in different domains based on novel focused crawler techniques .
Commercial search engines have begun exploring alternative methods to crawl the deep Web .
The Sitemap Protocol -LRB- first developed by Google -RRB- and mod oai are mechanisms that allow search engines and other interested parties to discover deep Web resources on particular Web servers .
Both mechanisms allow Web servers to advertise the URLs that are accessible on them , thereby allowing automatic discovery of resources that are not directly linked to the surface Web .
Google 's deep Web surfacing system pre-computes submissions for each HTML form and adds the resulting HTML pages into the Google search engine index .
The surfaced results account for a thousand queries per second to deep Web content..
In this system , the pre-computation of submissions is done using three algorithms : -LRB- 1 -RRB- selecting input values for text search inputs that accept keywords , -LRB- 2 -RRB- identifying inputs which accept only values of a specific type -LRB- e.g. , date -RRB- , and -LRB- 3 -RRB- selecting a small number of input combinations that generate URLs suitable for inclusion into the Web search index .
Classifying resources
It is difficult to automatically determine if a Web resource is a member of the surface Web or the deep Web .
If a resource is indexed by a search engine , it is not necessarily a member of the surface Web , because the resource could have been found using another method -LRB- e.g. , the Sitemap Protocol , mod oai , OAIster -RRB- instead of traditional crawling .
If a search engine provides a backlink for a resource , one may assume that the resource is in the surface Web .
Unfortunately , search engines do not always provide all backlinks to resources .
Even if a backlink does exist , there is no way to determine if the resource providing the link is itself in the surface Web without crawling all of the Web .
Furthermore , a resource may reside in the surface Web , but it has not yet been found by a search engine .
Therefore , if we have an arbitrary resource , we can not know for sure if the resource resides in the surface Web or deep Web without a complete crawl of the Web .
The concept of classifying search results by topic was pioneered by Yahoo ! Directory search and is gaining importance as search becomes more relevant in day-to-day decisions .
However , most of the work here has been in categorizing the surface Web by topic .
For classification of deep Web resources , Ipeirotis et al. presented an algorithm that classifies a deep Web site into the category that generates the largest number of hits for some carefully selected , topically-focused queries .
Deep Web directories under development include as OAIster at the University of Michigan , Intute at the University of Manchester , INFOMINE at the University of California at Riverside , and DirectSearch -LRB- by Gary Price -RRB- .
This classification poses a challenge while searching the deep Web whereby two levels of categorization are required .
The first level is to categorize sites into vertical topics -LRB- e.g. , health , travel , automobiles -RRB- and sub-topics according to the nature of the content underlying their databases .
The more difficult challenge is to categorize and map the information extracted from multiple deep Web sources according to end-user needs .
Deep Web search reports can not display URLs like traditional search reports .
End users expect their search tools to not only find what they are looking for quickly , but to be intuitive and user-friendly .
In order to be meaningful , the search reports have to offer some depth to the nature of content that underlie the sources or else the end-user will be lost in the sea of URLs that do not indicate what content lies underneath them .
The format in which search results are to be presented varies widely by the particular topic of the search and the type of content being exposed .
The challenge is to find and map similar data elements from multiple disparate sources so that search results may be exposed in a unified format on the search report irrespective of their source .
Future
The lines between search engine content and the deep Web have begun to blur , as search services start to provide access to part or all of once-restricted content .
An increasing amount of deep Web content is opening up to free search as publishers and libraries make agreements with large search engines .
In the future , deep Web content may be defined less by opportunity for search than by access fees or other types of authentication .
See also
Dark internet
Darknet -LRB- file sharing -RRB-
References
Further reading
Barker , Joe -LRB- Jan 2004 -RRB- .
Invisible Web : What it is , Why it exists , How to find it , and its inherent ambiguity UC Berkeley - Teaching Library Internet Workshops .
Gruchawka , Steve -LRB- June 2006 -RRB- .
How-To Guide to the Deep Web TechDeepWeb.com , http : //TechDeepWeb.com
Hamilton , Nigel -LRB- 2003 -RRB- .
The Mechanics of a Deep Net Metasearch Engine - 12th World Wide Web Conference poster .
Shestakov , Denis -LRB- June 2008 -RRB- .
Search Interfaces on the Web : Querying and Characterizing .
TUCS Doctoral Dissertations 104 , University of Turku
Wright , Alex -LRB- Mar 2004 -RRB- .
In Search of the Deep Web , Salon.com , http : //www.salon.com/tech/feature/2004/03/09/deep_web/
External links
Firms Push for a More Searchable Federal Web - article in the Washington Post , Thursday , December 11 , 2008 ; Page D01 by Peter Whoriskey .
DeepDyve A research search engine to access content in the Deep Web
DeepPeep a search engine project to `` discover the hidden web ''

Great Dane
The Great Dane , Danish Hound , Danish Gallant , Deutsche Dogge , Boarhound , Grand Danois or German Mastiff is a breed of domestic dog -LRB- Canis lupus familiaris -RRB- known for its giant size and gentle personality .
The breed is commonly referred to as the `` Apollo of all breeds . ''
Great Danes are considered one of the tallest dog breeds along with the Irish Wolfhound .
More recently , Great Danes have been in the Guinness World Records for tallest dog .
The Great Dane was named the state dog of Pennsylvania in 1965 .
Although the current holder of the world record for tallest dog is a tall Great Dane , the Irish Wolfhound is the breed that tends to be tallest , though it is lighter in weight .
History
Historians claim that there are drawings of dogs that resemble the breed on Egyptian monuments from roughly 3000 B.C .
It is also reported that the Great Dane was developed from mastiff-like dogs taken to Germany by the Alans .
The Bullenbeisser may be its direct ancestor , composing about the 40 % of its make-up .
Great Danes Gislev church , Denmark 1500-25
According to Barbara Stein , `` The breed originated in Germany , probably from a cross between the English mastiff and the Irish Wolfhound . ''
However , other sources maintain that the breed originated in Denmark and still others report the question as controversial and unsettled .
URL_http In 1749 Georges-Louis Leclerc , Comte de Buffon used the name ”le Grand Danois , ” -LRB- translated by William Smellie -LRB- encyclopedist -RRB- as ”Great Dane” -RRB- .
Up until that time the hound was referred to in England as ”Danish dog.”
The Great Dane Raro , Denmark 1655
According to Jacob Nicolay Wilse the Danes called the dog ”large hound , ” a terminology continued well in to the 20th Century .
The Great Dane Sultan , Denmark 1699
In Germany in 1780 the hound is referred to as ”Grosser Dänischer Jagd Hund” -LRB- -RRB- .
At the first dog exhibition , held in Hamburg 14-20 July 1863 , eight dogs were called ”Dänische Dogge” and seven ”Ulmer Doggen.”
The origin of the name Great Dane is curious .
The breed can be traced back to Germany , not Denmark as often thought because of the Anglo-Saxon name .
The reason why in Anglo Saxon and French speaking countries refer to the German Mastiff still as Great Dane are political reasons of historical issues especially during the unification of Germany by Prussia and Bismarck .
The breed had many names in the Holy Roman Empire , depending on its origin .
The oldest trackable breeders were in the states of Württemberg and Hesse .
All regions had their favourite colour of coat .
This led to the confusion during the first breeder exhibition in Germany in 1863 , when breeders from all over the country signed in dogs of the same breed under different breed names .
When it was decided during the German Dog Exhibition in Hamburg Altona that there should be a united name for this old German breed it was decisive that this dog would be called `` Deutsche Dogge '' -LRB- German Mastiff -RRB- at a time when Germany united and Prussia became a European Power in defeating France .
Britain or France would not call a dog `` Great German '' .
The precursors of today 's Great Dane are the old `` Bullenbeisser '' as well as the so-called `` Hatz- and Sauhunde '' -LRB- hounds -RRB- , which are a cross between the strong Mastiff of the English type and a fast and nimble Greyhound .
At first , big and strong dogs that did not necessarily belong to a certain breed were considered as Danes .
Later on , names like Ulmer Dane , English Dane , Danish Dane , `` Saupacker '' -LRB- wild boar hunt -RRB- and big Dane described the different sizes and colors of this type .
A female blue Great Dane
In 1878 a committee of seven , consisting of committed breeders and judges with the chairman Dr Bodinus , decided in Berlin to unite all varieties of the above-mentioned types under the term `` Deutsche Dogge '' -LRB- German Dane , ie Great Dane -RRB- .
Through this the foundation for the first German dog breed has been laid .
In 1880 , on the occasion of a dog show in Berlin , a standard for the Great Dane was determined for the first time .
Since 1888 , the `` Deutsche Doggen Club 1888 e.V. '' is in charge of this standards and repeatedly modified it since .
Today 's edition fulfills the demands of the F.C.I .
Description
Appearance
In the United States , the breed standard for the Great Dane is described on the American Kennel Club website .
`` The Great Dane combines , in its regal appearance , dignity , strength and elegance with grand size and a well-formed body .
One of the largest working breeds , it never appears clumsy . ''
The male should appear more massive throughout than the female , with larger frame and heavier bone .
In the ratio between length and height , the Great Dane should be square .
In females , a somewhat longer body is permissible , providing she is well proportioned to her height .
Coarseness or lack of substance are equally undesirable .
The male shall not be less than at the shoulders , but it is preferable that he be or more , providing he is well proportioned to his height .
The female shall not be less than at the shoulders , but it is preferable that she be , providing she is well proportioned to her height .
Danes under minimum height must be disqualified .
There used to be a minimum weight requirement , but the current standard does not call for this .
they are also known for their long and narrow head
In August 2004 , a Great Dane named `` Gibson '' from Grass Valley , California was recognized by the Guinness Book of Records as the world 's tallest dog , measuring at the withers .
Gibson lost one of his front legs to cancer in 2009 .
It is not in the best interest of the breed to attempt to achieve the `` tallest '' dog .
Breeding for height can sacrifice structure and conformation and produce unhealthy dogs .
Coat colors
There are six show-acceptable coat colors for Great Danes :
Fawn : The color is yellow gold with a black mask .
Black should appear on the eye rims and eyebrows , and may appear on the ears .
Brindle : The color is fawn and black in a chevron stripe pattern .
Often also they are referred to as having a tiger -stripe pattern .
Blue puppy
Blue : The color is a pure steel blue .
White markings at the chest and toes are not desirable and considered faults .
Black : The color is a glossy black .
White markings at the chest and toes are not desirable and considered faults .
Harlequin : The base color is pure white with black torn patches irregularly and well distributed over the entire body ; a pure white neck is preferred .
The black patches should never be large enough to give the appearance of a blanket , nor so small as to give a stippled or dappled effect .
Eligible , but less desirable , are a few small grey patches -LRB- this grey is consistent with a Merle marking -RRB- or a white base with single black hairs showing through , which tend to give a salt and pepper or dirty effect .
Mantle -LRB- in some countries referred to as Bostons due to the similar coloration and pattern as a Boston Terrier -RRB- : The color is black and white with a solid black blanket extending over the body ; black skull with white muzzle ; white blaze is optional ; whole white collar preferred ; a white chest ; white on part or whole of forelegs and hind legs ; white tipped black tail .
A small white marking in the black blanket is acceptable , as is a break in the white collar .
Great Danes of several coat types , from left to right : harlequin , black , brindle , blue and fawn
Other colors occur occasionally but are not acceptable for conformation showing , and they are not pursued by breeders who intend to breed show dogs .
These colors include white , fawnequin , merle , merlequin , fawn mantle , and others .
Some breeders may attempt to charge more for puppies of these `` rare '' colors .
However , the breeding of white and merle Danes is particularly controversial , as these colors may be associated with genes that produce deafness .
In the past , when Great Danes were commonly used to hunt boars , cropping of the ears was performed to make injuries to the dogs ' ears less likely during hunts .
Now that Danes are primarily companion animals , cropping is sometimes still done for traditional and cosmetic reasons .
Today , the practice is somewhat common in the United States and much less common in Europe .
In some European countries such as the UK , Denmark , Germany , parts of Australia , and in New Zealand , the practice is banned , or controlled to only be performed by veterinary surgeons .
Temperament
The Great Dane 's large and imposing appearance belies its friendly nature ; the breed is often referred to as a gentle giant .
Great Danes are generally well-disposed toward other dogs , other non-canine pets and humans .
As with all dogs , they should be supervised around young children .
Great Danes can be protective and make good guard dogs .
Some Great Danes — as with any breed — can have dominance issues , can be aggressive with other dogs , or chase small animals ; however , this is not typical .
Exercise
Because Great Danes have a fairly slow metabolism they need daily exercise the same as any other dog , and a fair amount of it .
Great Danes Running
Great Danes Running
A common misconception is that they are slow and docile and don't need walking ; this is incorrect and in most cases Great Danes are full of energy and need regular walking .
The Great Dane was bred to hunt wild boar and guard the manor .
They are robust , alert and agile when needed to be .
Health
Great Danes , like most giant dogs , have a fairly slow metabolism .
This results in less energy and less food consumption per pound of dog than in small breeds .
Great Danes have some health problems that are common to large breeds .
Bloat -LRB- a painful distending and twisting of the stomach formally known as Gastric volvulus -RRB- is a critical condition that can affect Great Danes and results rapidly in death if not quickly addressed .
Drinking large amounts of fluid in a short period of time can provoke Bloating in Great Danes , as well as other larger breeds of dogs .
It is a commonly recommended practice for Great Danes to have their stomachs tacked -LRB- Gastropexy -RRB- to the right abdominal wall during routine surgery such as spaying or neutering if the dog or its relatives have a history of bloat , though some veterinary surgeons will not do the operation if the actual sickness has not occurred .
Elevated food dishes are often believed to help prevent bloat by regulating the amount of air that is inhaled while eating , although one study suggests that they may increase the risk .
Refraining from exercise or activity immediately before and after meals may also reduce risk , although this has not been validated with research .
Another problem common to the breed is hip dysplasia .
Typically an x-ray of the parents can certify whether their hips are healthy and can serve as a guideline for whether the animals should be bred and are likely to have healthy pups .
Great Danes generally live 8–10 years , but with responsible breeding and improved nutrition they can live to be 12-14 .
Dilated cardiomyopathy -LRB- DCM -RRB- and many congenital heart diseases are also commonly found in the Great Dane .
Which often leads to its nick name of the Heart break breed , in conjunction with its shorter lifespan .
Great Danes also suffer from several genetic disorders that are specific to the breed .
For example , if a Great Dane lacks color -LRB- is white -RRB- near its eyes or ears then that organ does not develop and usually the dog will be either blind or deaf .
Great Danes in culture
Le Grand Danois
Scooby-Doo , a Hanna-Barbera character .
Creator Iwao Takamoto based this famous animal character on a Great Dane based on sketches given by a Hanna-Barbera employee who bred this dog , although Scooby 's tail is longer than a real Great Dane 's and actually bears a closer resemblance to a cat 's tail .
In one episode of the original series , one of the characters says that he 's part- terrier and `` part-terrified '' in response to someone asking what kind of dog he is .
`` Part-terrified '' was most likely added for humor , but he might possibly be part-terrier .
Brad Anderson ` s newspaper comic character Marmaduke .
Brutus from Disney ` s version of The Ugly Dachshund , who is a Great Dane raised by a Dachshund .
Chester , Alan 's dog is a harlequin Great Dane in Two and a Half Men .
The school mascot for the University at Albany is the Great Dane .
The Big Purple Growl , the annual basketball event held in early February gets the name from their mascot .
The music video for Soundgarden 's `` Black Hole Sun '' features a Harlequin Great Dane .
So far most of singer Lady GaGa ` s music videos feature two trademark Harlequin Great Danes
In the movie Seven Pounds , starring Will Smith .
Emily Posa -LRB- Rosario Dawson -RRB- has a pet Great Dane named Duke .
On the show 30 Rock in episode eight of season one , Liz has to put up with a Great Dane living in her apartment that belongs to a cousin of her then live-in boyfriend Dennis .
References
External links
AKC Great Dane Breed Standard
Breed Information Resource

Agent
An agent is either :
an entity that is capable of action
someone -LRB- or something -RRB- who acts on behalf of another person or group .
Whereas the word agent is
used as a title or honorific such as `` Agent Smith ''
In espionage and law enforcement
Secret agent , a spy
Double agent , in spying
Special agent , the usual title for a U.S. federal criminal or non-criminal investigator or detective .
Agent provocateur , a person assigned to provoke unrest , violence , debate , or argument by or within a group while acting as a member of the group but covertly representing the interests of another
In law
Agent -LRB- law -RRB- : a person authorized to act on behalf of another person
Patent agent , or patent attorney , a professional who represents and advises another in the assessment , securing and maintaining of intellectual property rights , with particular reference to patent rights .
Tuition agent , a person who represents a tuition agency in searching for suitable tutors for students .
Literary agent , a person who represents a writer
Theatrical agent
Booking agent
Sports agent , a professional who represents an athlete
Free agent , a sports player who is out of contract
Talent agent , a person who finds jobs for actors , models , and other people in various entertainment businesses .
Press agent , publicist who acts on behalf of a client on all matters involving public relations
Foreign agent , someone registered with the U.S. Justice Department as mandated by the Foreign Agents Registration Act
Travel agent , makes vacation and travel arrangements
Real estate broker , or real estate agent
Yacht broker , or yacht agent
Yacht charter broker , or yacht charter agent
Election agent , a person responsible for a candidate 's campaign
In finance
Agent , a financial institution acting as the operational intermediary in a syndicated loan between the syndicate banks and the borrower .
The most common form is the `` Administrative Agent '' .
In economics
The ` Agent ' or employee in the Principal-agent relationship is the most common and important use of the word in economics .
Agent -LRB- economics -RRB- , a player in a game or model
Homo economicus is sometimes called a `` rational agent ''
Rational agent , a person or firm that always chooses a course of action that is best for itself .
Agent-Based Computational Economics , computational economic modeling based on interactions of intelligent agents
Representative agent , a situation in which many agents act as if they were a single individual
In chemistry and warfare
Agent Orange , a herbicide
Biological agent , an infectious disease that can be used in biological warfare
Chemical warfare agent , classified by their effect and include :
Nerve agent
Blister agent
Blood agent
Pulmonary agent
Incapacitating agent
Riot control agent .
In linguistics
Agent -LRB- grammar -RRB- , one of the thematic roles : the participant of a situation that carries out an action .
Replaces `` subject '' in placement typology .
Agent noun -LRB- or nomen agentis -RRB- , one of the derivatemes -LRB- a topic from linguistic morphology -RRB-
In computer science and artificial intelligence
Software agent , software that acts on behalf of a user
Forté Agent , a newsreader and email client
User agent , a client application used with a particular network protocol
Intelligent agent , any entity that is capable of perceiving its environment and carrying out goal-directed action .
In fiction
Agent 212 , a Belgian comic
Agents , characters in The Matrix
The Agent -LRB- film -RRB- , a 1922 film
Secret Agent -LRB- 1936 film -RRB- , a 1936 film
The Agents , superhuman characters in Seven Samurai 20XX
Agent 47 , a character from the computer game series Hitman
Agents , rogue killers from the novel T.O.M. tom
In popular culture
Polish version of The Mole .
Culture Jammer : First appearing in Wisconsin circa 2004 , A group of individuals known only as `` Agent '' began distributing anti-establishment propaganda and guerrilla marketing campaigns statewide .
In recent years , the work of `` Agent '' has been seen in areas as far as Tennessee , New york , Colorado , and Florida .
See also
Agent architecture
Agent based model
Robot
bot
personoid

Love Chaser
`` Love Chaser '' is the 1986 single released by the Swedish hard rock band Europe .
It was taken from the album The Final Countdown , and was released only in Japan in the soundtrack album of the Japanese movie Pride One .
The track on the B-side of the single was `` Carrie `` .
Next year the single was reissued in Japan and was entitled `` Carrie '' with `` Carrie '' on the A-side .
The reissue had the same catalogue number -LRB- VIPX-1849 -RRB- as the first release .
The song was written by vocalist Joey Tempest in 1985 , and was first played on a tour in Sweden the same year , before it was recorded and included on the Final Countdown album in 1986 .
Personnel
Joey Tempest − vocals
John Norum − guitars
John Levén − bass guitar
Mic Michaeli − keyboards
Ian Haugland − drums

Employment agency
An employment agency is a company that matches workers to open jobs .
The first employment agency in the United States was opened by Fred Winslow who opened Engineering Agency in 1893 .
It later became part of General Employment Enterprises who also owned Businessmen 's Clearing House -LRB- est. 1902 -RRB- .
Another of the oldest agencies was developed by Katharine Felton as a response to the problems brought on by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire .
Temporary staffing firm
A temporary agency may be distinct from a recruitment firm , which seeks to place permanent employees , but there is often a large overlap : temporary workers may go on to become permanent employees ; or workers a company intends to hire as a permanent employee may start out as trial temporary worker .
In the UK the temporary worker is technically self employed & introduced by the recruitment agency to working on site for the client who pay the bills .
The agency is responsible for paying the temporary worker plus paying employers national insurance to the government and setting aside holiday pay -LRB- working time directive or WTR -LRB- regulations -RRB- -RRB- .
This total cost then has a profit margin added and is charged per hour to the client .
The temporary worker fills in timesheets -LRB- often online -RRB- and is paid by BACS on a weekly basis .
Some industries in the UK are more heavily regulated by the gangmaster regulations .
Many UK manufacturing companies rely heavily on `` Temp Staff '' during periods of high demand , in recent years U.K agencies have responded to the demand for high quantities of cheap temporary labour by `` shipping people in '' from within the EU particularly eastern Europe and former Soviet states .
The vast majority of these workers are employed using a contract for services and rarely earn more than the national minimum wage .
Many temporary agencies specialize in a particular profession or field of business , such as accounting , health care , technical , or secretarial .
Legal status
For most of the twentieth century , private employment agencies were considered quasi illegal entities under international law .
The International Labour Organization instead called for the establishment of public employment agencies .
To prevent the abusive practices of private agencies , they were either to be fully abolished , or tightly regulated .
In most countries they are legal but regulated .
Probably inspired by the dissenting judgments in a US Supreme Court case called Adams v. Tanner , the International Labour Organization ` s first ever Recommendation was targeted at fee charging agencies .
The Unemployment Recommendation , 1919 -LRB- No.1 -RRB- , Art .
1 called for each member to ,
`` take measures to prohibit the establishment of employment agencies which charge fees or which carry on their business for profit .
Where such agencies already exist , it is further recommended that they be permitted to operate only under government licenses , and that all practicable measures be taken to abolish such agencies as soon as possible . ''
The Unemployment Convention , 1919 , Art .
2 instead required the alternative of ,
`` a system of free public employment agencies under the control of a central authority .
Committees , which shall include representatives of employers and workers , shall be appointed to advise on matters concerning the carrying on of these agencies . ''
In 1933 the Fee-Charging Employment Agencies Convention -LRB- No.34 -RRB- formally called for abolition .
The exception was if the agencies were licensed and a fee scale was agreed in advance .
In 1949 a new revised Convention -LRB- No.96 -RRB- was produced .
This kept the same scheme , but secured an ‘opt out’ -LRB- Art.2 -RRB- for members that did not wish to sign up .
Agencies were an increasingly entrenched part of the labor market .
The United States did not sign up to the Conventions .
The latest Convention , the Private Employment Agencies Convention , 1997 -LRB- No.181 -RRB- takes a much softer stance and calls merely for regulation .
In most countries , agencies are regulated , for instance in the UK under the Employment Agencies Act 1973 , or in Germany under the Arbeitnehmerüberlassungsgesetz -LRB- Employee Hiring Law of 1972 -RRB- .
Executive recruitment
A third-party recruiter can work on their own or through an agency , and acts as an independent contact between their client companies and the candidates they recruit for a position .
They can specialize in client relationships only -LRB- sales or business development -RRB- , in finding candidates -LRB- recruiting or sourcing -RRB- , or in both areas .
Most recruiters tend to specialize in permanent or full-time , direct hire positions or contract positions , but occasionally in both .
In an executive search assignment , the client hiring company , not the job seeker , pays the search firm its fee .
An executive search firm is a type of employment agency that specializes in recruiting executive personnel for companies in various industries .
Two of the largest executive search firms in the U.S. are Korn/Ferry International -LRB- CEO : Paul Reilly -RRB- based in Los Angeles ; and Heidrick & Struggles -LRB- CEO : Gerard Roche -RRB- based in Chicago .
See also
Temporary work
UK agency worker law
Talent agent
Staffing
Professional employer organization
American Staffing Association
Payrolling
Notes