Andorra
Andorra , officially the Principality of Andorra -LRB- -RRB- , also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra , is a small landlocked country in western Europe , located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
It is currently a prosperous country mainly because of tourism and its status as a tax haven .
The people of Andorra are currently listed as having the highest human life expectancy in the world , at an average of 85 years at birth .
Andorra is the sixth smallest nation in Europe .
Its name is thought to be derived from an ancient Basque tribe , the Andosinos , who are believed to have inhabited that region of the Pyrenees thousands of years ago .
History
Tradition holds that Charles the Great -LRB- Charlemagne -RRB- granted a charter to the Andorran people in return for fighting against the Moors .
Overlordship of the territory was of the local count of Urgell and eventually to the bishop of the diocese of Urgell .
In 988 Borrell II count of Urgell gave the Andorran valleys to the Diocese of Urgell when the count expanded to the south .
Since then the Bishop of Urgell , locally known as the bishop of the la Seu d'Urgell , has owned Andorra .
Andorra did not have any type of protection and the Bishop of Urgell , who knew that the Count of Urgell wanted to reclaim the Andorran valleys , decided to ask for help and protection from the Lord of Caboet .
In 1095 , the Lord of Caboet and the Bishop of la Seu d'Urgell signed under oath the recognition of their sovereignty over Andorra .
Arnalda , daughter of Arnau of Caboet , married the Viscount of Castellbò and both became Viscounts of Castellbò and Cerdanya .
Years later their daughter , Ermessenda , married Roger Bernat II of the French Count of Foix .
They became Roger Bernat II and Ermessenda I Counts of Foix , Viscounts of Castellbò and Cerdanya and also sovereigns of Andorra -LRB- shared with the Bishop of Urgell -RRB- .
In the eleventh century a dispute arose between the bishop of la Seu d'Urgell and Count of Foix .
The conflict was resolved in 1278 by the signing of the first paréage , with the mediation of Aragon , which provided that Andorra 's sovereignty be shared between the count of Foix -LRB- whose title would ultimately transfer to the French head of state -RRB- and the bishop of Urgell , in Catalonia .
This gave the small principality its territory and political form .
Over the years the title passed to the kings of Navarre , and after Henry of Navarre became King Henry IV of France he issued an edict -LRB- 1607 -RRB- that established the head of the French state and the Bishop of Urgell as co-princes of Andorra .
In the period 1812–13 , the First French Empire annexed Catalonia and divided it in four départements .
Andorra was also annexed and made part of the district of Puigcerdà -LRB- département of Sègre -RRB- .
Andorra declared war on Imperial Germany during World War I but did not actually take part in the fighting .
It remained in an official state of belligerency until 1957 as it was not included in the Versailles Peace Treaty .
In 1933 France occupied Andorra as a result of social unrest before elections .
On July 12 , 1934 , an adventurer named Boris Skossyreff issued a proclamation in Urgell , declaring himself Boris I , sovereign prince of Andorra , simultaneously declaring war on the bishop of Urgell .
He was arrested by Spanish authorities on July 20 and ultimately expelled from Spain .
From 1936 to 1940 , a French detachment was garrisoned in Andorra to prevent influences of the Spanish Civil War and Franco 's Spain .
Francoist troops reached the Andorran border in the later stages of the war .
During World War II , Andorra remained neutral and was an important smuggling route between Vichy France and Spain .
Given its relative isolation , Andorra has existed outside the mainstream of European history , with few ties to countries other than France and Spain .
In recent times , however , its thriving tourist industry along with developments in transportation and communications have removed the country from its isolation .
Its political system was thoroughly modernized in 1993 , the year in which it became a member of the United Nations and the Council of Europe .
Andorran coat of arms at Andorran Parliament
Politics
Andorra is a parliamentary co-principality with the President of France and the Bishop of Urgell -LRB- Catalonia -RRB- , Spain , as co-princes , in a duumvirate .
The politics of Andorra take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democracy , whereby the Prime Minister of Andorra is the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
The current Prime Minister is Albert Pintat Santolària of the Andorran Liberal Party -LRB- PLA -RRB- .
Executive power is exercised by the government .
Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament .
The Parliament of Andorra is known as the General Council .
The General Council consists of between 28 and 42 Councilors , as the members of the legislative branch are called .
The Councilors serve for four-year terms and elections are held within the thirtieth and fortieth days following the dissolution of the previous Council .
The Councilors can be elected on two equal constituencies .
Half are elected in equal number from each of the seven administrative parishes and the other half of the Councilors are elected from a single national constituency .
Fifteen days following the election , the Councilors convene in their inaugural session .
During this session , the Syndic General , who is the head of the General Council , and the Subsyndic General , his assistant , are elected .
Eight days later , the Council convenes once more .
During this session the Head of Government , the Prime Minister of Andorra , is chosen from among the Councilors .
Candidates for nomination can be proposed by a minimum of one-fifth of the Councilors .
The Council then elects the candidate with the absolute majority of votes to be Head of Government .
The Syndic General then notifies the Coprinces who in turn appoint the elected candidate as the Prime Minister of Andorra .
The General Council also is responsible for proposing and passing laws .
Bills may be presented to the Council as Private Members ' Bills by three of the Local Parish Councils jointly or one tenth of the citizens of Andorra .
The Council also approves the annual budget of the principality .
The government must submit the proposed budget for parliamentary approval at least two months before the current budget expires .
If the budget is not approved by the first day of the next year , the previous budget is extended until a new one is approved .
Once any bill is approved , the Syndic General is responsible for presenting it to the Coprinces so that they may sign and enact it .
If the Head of Government is not satisfied with the Council , he may request that the Coprinces dissolve the Council and order new elections .
In turn , the Councilors have the power to remove the Head of Government from office .
After a motion of censure is approved by at least one-fifth of the Councilors , the Council will vote and if it receives the absolute majority of votes , the Prime Minister is removed .
The Judiciary is composed of the Magistrates Court , the Criminal Law Court , the High Court of Andorra , and the Constitutional Court .
The High Court of Justice is composed of five judges : one appointed by the Head of Government , one each by the Coprinces , one by the Syndic General , and one by the Judges and Magistrates .
It is presided over by the member appointed by the Syndic General and the judges hold office for six-year terms .
The Magistrates and Judges are appointed by the High Court and so is the President of the Criminal Law Court .
The High Court also appoints members of the Office of the Attorney General .
The Constitutional Court is responsible for interpreting the Constitution and reviewing all appeals of unconstitutionality against laws and treaties .
The Court is composed of four judges , one appointed by each of the Coprinces and two by the General Council .
They serve eight-year terms .
The Court is presided over by one of the Judges on a two year rotation so that each judge at one point will be the leader of the Court .
Responsibility for defending Andorra rests with Spain and France .
Andorra currently has very limited nominal military force , used for ceremonial purposes only .
Parishes
Andorra consists of seven parishes :
Andorra la Vella
Canillo
Encamp
Escaldes-Engordany
La Massana
Ordino
Sant Julià de Lòria
Geography
Topographic map of Andorra
Scenery of the Andorran mountains
Escaldes-Engordany with Caldea spa -LRB- center -RRB-
Due to its location in the eastern Pyrenees mountain range , Andorra consists predominantly of rugged mountains of an average height of with the highest being the Coma Pedrosa at .
These are dissected by three narrow valleys in a Y shape that combine into one as the main stream , the Valira river , leaves the country for Spain -LRB- at Andorra 's lowest point of -RRB- .
Andorra 's surface area is .
Andorra 's climate is similar to that of its neighbours ' temperate climates , but its higher altitude means there is , on average , more snow in winter and it is slightly cooler in summer .
Phytogeographically , Andorra belongs to the Atlantic European province of the Circumboreal Region within the Boreal Kingdom .
According to the WWF , the territory of Andorra belongs to the ecoregion of Pyrenees conifer and mixed forests .
Economy
Casa de la Vall , Andorran Parliament
Tourism , the mainstay of Andorra 's tiny , well-to-do economy , accounts for roughly 80 % of GDP .
An estimated 9 million tourists visit annually , attracted by Andorra 's duty-free status and by its summer and winter resorts .
Andorra 's comparative advantage has recently eroded as the economies of adjoining France and Spain have been opened up , providing broader availability of goods and lower tariffs .
The banking sector , with its tax haven status , also contributes substantially to the economy .
Agricultural production is limited—only 2 % of the land is arable—and most food has to be imported .
Some tobacco is grown locally .
The principal livestock activity is domestic sheep raising .
Manufacturing output consists mainly of cigarettes , cigars , and furniture .
Andorra 's natural resources include hydroelectric power , mineral water , timber , iron ore , and lead .
Andorra is not a member of the European Union , but enjoys a special relationship with it , such as being treated as an EU member for trade in manufactured goods -LRB- no tariffs -RRB- and as a non-EU member for agricultural products .
Andorra lacks a currency of its own and uses that of its two surrounding nations .
Prior to 2002 these were the French franc and the Spanish peseta , which have since been both replaced by the EU 's single currency , the euro .
Andorra is negotiating to issue its own euro coins .
Demographics
Andorrans , who are ethnically Catalans , are a minority in their own country ; Spaniards , Portuguese , French , Britons , and Italians make up 67.7 % of Andorra 's population .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Andorra has the world 's second longest life expectancy : 83.5 years .
Languages
The national language is Catalan , a Romance language .
Most Andorrans also speak Spanish , French or both .
Andorra is one of only four European countries -LRB- together with France , Monaco , and Turkey -RRB- that have never signed the Council of Europe Framework Convention on National Minorities .
Religion
The population of Andorra is predominantly Roman Catholic .
Their patron saint is Our Lady of Meritxell .
Culture
Andorran flag on balcony , Ordino
The official and historic language is Catalan .
Because of immigration , historical links , and close geographic proximity , other languages such as French , Portuguese and Spanish are also commonly spoken .
Andorra is home to folk dances like the contrapàs and marratxa , which survive in Sant Julià de Lòria especially .
Andorran folk music has similarities to the music of its neighbors , but is especially Catalan in character , especially in the presence of dances such as the sardana .
Other Andorran folk dances include contrapàs in Andorra la Vella and Saint Anne 's dance in Escaldes-Engordany .
Andorra 's national holiday is Our Lady of Meritxell Day , September 8 .
See also
References
External links
Government
Govern d'Andorra - Official governmental site -LRB- in Catalan -RRB-
Chief of State and Cabinet Members
General information
Country Profile at BBC News
Andorra information from the United States Department of State
Portals to the World from the United States Library of Congress
Andorra from UCB Libraries GovPubs
History of Andorra : Primary Documents from EuroDocs
Culture of Andorra - History , ethnic relations , diet , urbanism , architecture , use of space , and more .
Andorra Web Directory - A web directory specifically for Andorra
Travel
Official Tourism Website
Other
Coin Types from Andorra Lists , pictures , and values of Andorra coin types
HiT Andorra - Andorra 's health care system and general historical and government background information
World Intellectual Property Handbook : Andorra

Animals (album)
Animals is a studio album by English progressive rock band Pink Floyd , released on 23 January 1977 in the United Kingdom and on 2 February 1977 in the United States .
The album proved to be a success in the UK , where it reached # 2 in the era of punk rock .
It was also a success in the U.S. , reaching # 3 on the Billboard album charts -LRB- # 1 and # 2 were Hotel California by The Eagles , and the soundtrack to the Barbra Streisand film A Star Is Born -RRB- .
Although it scored on the American charts for only six months , it has continued to sell solidly , and is now certified quadruple platinum by the RIAA .
Background
Animals is based approximately on George Orwell ` s political fable Animal Farm .
Various castes in society are represented as different types of animals -LRB- dogs as the businessmen , sheep as the powerless pawns , and pigs as the ruthless leaders -RRB- .
Although this album attacks Capitalism , in the book various animals -LRB- mainly pigs , sheep , dogs , etc. -RRB- represent different roles assumed by individuals in a Communist society .
David Gilmour and Roger Waters ` `` Dogs `` -LRB- which had the working title of `` You Gotta Be Crazy '' -RRB- and `` Raving and Drooling '' , a Waters song which would later become `` Sheep '' , were created at the same time as `` Shine On You Crazy Diamond `` , and originally intended for Wish You Were Here .
Their creation process was similar to the method the band used during the late 1960s and early 1970s .
They would adapt and expand their compositions by performing them live , and later in the studio find a more coherent form and concept for the whole album , with Waters writing the lyrics .
Animals was the last Pink Floyd album created in this way , as the subsequent The Wall and The Final Cut , were primarily conceived by Waters and worked out in the studio with some input from Gilmour .
Although Richard Wright did not contribute much compositionally , he had some influence on the arrangement of the songs , including solo playing on `` Dogs '' and `` Sheep '' .
As with `` Welcome to the Machine `` and `` Wish You Were Here `` on Wish You Were Here , Waters wrote `` Pigs on the Wing `` and `` Pigs -LRB- Three Different Ones -RRB- `` to harmonize the other songs conceptually .
His dominance in the writing credits and the discrepancy with the actual creation process is directly related to the increasing tensions within the band .
The three core songs are bookended by a pair of love songs written by Waters for his then-love Carolyne : `` Pigs on the Wing , Part 1 `` and `` Pigs on the Wing , Part 2 '' .
Both are in stark contrast to the misanthropic middle three songs , and suggest that companionship can help us overcome our flaws – though the final lines suggest that the singer is or was once one of the dogs .
For the 8-track cartridge release , which looped , Parts 1 and 2 were linked by a guitar bridge performed by Snowy White -LRB- subsequently available on White 's 1996 album `` Goldtop : Groups & Sessions '' -RRB- , and the 17 : 08 song `` Dogs '' was cut into two tracks .
This album represents the time during which it is generally claimed that Waters began to assert himself creatively on the rest of the band .
And while it is true that about 90 % of the album 's writing credits belong to Waters , the song that Gilmour shared half the credits for was almost half the album .
Speaking of Animals in an interview in the October 2008 edition of Mojo , Gilmour said , `` Roger 's thing is to dominate , but I am happy to stand up for myself and argue vociferously as to the merits of different pieces of music , which is what I did on Animals .
I didn't feel remotely squeezed out of that album .
Ninety per cent of the song ` Dogs ' was mine .
That song was almost the whole of one side , so that 's half of Animals. '' .
The giant , helium -filled pig -LRB- referred to as the Pink Floyd Pig -RRB- seen on the cover was actually flown over Battersea Power Station for the photo shoot under the direction of Storm Thorgerson .
On the first day of shooting , a marksman was on hand in case the pig broke free .
However , according to Thorgerson , this was considered an `` insurance problem '' , and he was not hired for the second day of shooting .
On 3 December 1976 , during the second day , a gust of wind broke the pig free of its moorings .
Because there was no one to shoot the pig down , it sailed away into the morning sky .
A police helicopter was sent up to track the pig , but was forced to return after following the pig to an altitude of 5,000 feet .
The CAA lost radar contact on the pig near Chatham in Kent , at a height of 18,000 feet and flying East .
It finally landed in a farmer 's field , without much damage .
They then repaired the pig , and flew it up for a third time .
The resulting pictures were not deemed suitable on their own -LRB- as the clear , blue sky from day three was thought to be much less evocative -RRB- , and the final image was made as a composite of the power station picture from day one and the pig from day three .
The album had custom picture labels , using drummer Nick Mason 's handwriting as a typeface , as did the lyrics on the liner sleeve .
Side one 's label depicted a fish-eye lens view of a dog and the English countryside .
Side two 's was similar , but featured a pig and sheep instead of the dog .
Originally released on Columbia Records in the U.S. and Harvest Records in the UK , Animals was then remastered in 1992 for its inclusion on the Shine On box set .
The remaster was subsequently released on its own by EMI in 1994 .
In 1997 , Columbia Records issued an updated remaster in the United States , Canada , Australia , South America and Japan .
Animals was again re-released in April 2000 by Capitol Records in the US , and on the EMI label in Japan , Canada , South America and Australia again using the 1992 Shine On remaster along with the artwork from the 1994 EMI Europe reissue .
Quotations
- David Gilmour , May 1992 , Pink Floyd : The 25th Anniversary Special , Westwood One .
– Richard Wright , November 1994 , BBC Omnibus Pink Floyd Special 1994 .
Track listing
All songs written by Roger Waters except where noted .
All lead vocals performed by Roger Waters , except `` Dogs '' with lead vocals by David Gilmour and Roger Waters .
Original LP and CD versions
Side one
`` Pigs on the Wing 1 `` – 1 : 24
`` Dogs `` -LRB- Gilmour , Waters -RRB- – 17 : 06
Side two
`` Pigs -LRB- Three Different Ones -RRB- `` – 11 : 28
`` Sheep `` – 10 : 21
`` Pigs on the Wing 2 `` – 1 : 27
Cassette version
Side one
`` Pigs on the Wing 1 ``
`` Dogs ``
`` Pigs -LRB- Three Different Ones -RRB- `` -LRB- Part One -RRB-
Side two
`` Pigs -LRB- Three Different Ones -RRB- `` -LRB- Conclusion -RRB-
`` Sheep ``
`` Pigs on the Wing 2 ``
8-track cartridge
Program one
`` Pigs on the Wing -LRB- with Snowy White guitar solo -RRB- '' – 3 : 26
`` Dogs -LRB- Part 1 -RRB- '' – 6 : 47
Program two
`` Dogs -LRB- Conclusion -RRB- '' – 10 : 23
Program three
`` Pigs -LRB- Three Different Ones -RRB- '' – 11 : 20
Program four
`` Sheep '' – 10 : 20
Record charts
Personnel
Roger Waters – vocals , bass , acoustic guitar , rhythm guitar , sleeve design
David Gilmour – guitars , bass , vocals , talk box , synthesizer
Richard Wright – Hammond organ , Wurlitzer electric piano , Fender Rhodes piano , Yamaha piano , ARP synthesizer , backing vocals
Nick Mason – drums , percussion , sleeve graphics
Additional personnel
Snowy White – lead guitar on `` Pigs on the Wing '' -LRB- 8-track cartridge version only -RRB-
Brian Humphries – engineer
Storm Thorgerson – sleeve design
Aubrey Powell – sleeve design
James Guthrie – remastering producer
Doug Sax – remastering
Cover versions
The album was also covered in its entirety and released as the live album Live Frogs Set 2 by Colonel Les Claypool 's Fearless Flying Frog Brigade .
References
External links
Lyrics and trivia

Kirk Haston
Kirk Haston -LRB- born March 10 , 1979 in Lobelville , Tennessee -RRB- was an American professional basketball player .
He attended Perry County High School in Linden , Tennessee , where , as a senior , he was a part of the 37-0 Class A state championship team , being named Class A `` Mr. Basketball '' .
His college career took place under head coach Bob Knight and Mike Davis at Indiana University where , in the 2000-01 season he led the Big Ten in scoring and was a 3rd Team All-American selection .
Many nicknamed Kirk `` The Machine '' because he was so automatic in college .
During his sophomore year , he lost his mother , Patti Kirk Haston , 48 , in a tornado that hit the county seat , Linden , Tennessee on May 5 , 1999 .
Haston was selected 16th overall by the Charlotte Hornets in the 2001 NBA Draft ; many analysts , who had pegged Haston in the late first round-early second round area , thought that the Hornets took Haston to be a ` zone breaker ' , working against the change in rules that allowed some forms of the zone defense in games .
Haston was known for his sky hook shot and shooting range for a forward/center .
In two years he had many stints on the injury reserve list due to a lower back injury .
Haston averaged 1.2 points per game , playing in 27 games .
He also averaged one rebound per game while recording no steals .
He played the 2004-2005 season with the Florida Flame for head coach Dennis Johnson in the NBA D-League .
There he averaged 16 points , 7.9 rebounds , 1.2 blocks per game and was selected to the All NBDL First-Team .
His season came to an end when he suffered a right knee injury that required season-ending knee surgery with three games remaining .
In 2005 he signed with Upea Capo D'Orlando of the Serie A .
He and his wife Kasey soon returned from Sicily to Middle Tennessee when he was waived due to a right knee injury prior to the start of the season .
External links
NBA.com profile

Antiparticle
Illustration of electric charge as well as general size of particles -LRB- left -RRB- and antiparticles -LRB- right -RRB- .
From top to bottom ; electron/positron , proton/antiproton , neutron/antineutron .
Corresponding to most kinds of particles , there is an associated antiparticle with the same mass and opposite electric charge .
For example , the antiparticle of the electron is the positively charged antielectron , or positron , which is produced naturally in certain types of radioactive decay .
The laws of nature are very nearly symmetrical with respect to particles and antiparticles .
For example , an antiproton and a positron can form an antihydrogen atom , which has almost exactly the same properties as a hydrogen atom .
A physicist whose body was made of antimatter , doing experiments in a laboratory also made of antimatter , using chemicals and substances comprised of antiparticles , would find almost exactly the same results in all experiments .
This leads to the question of why the formation of matter after the Big Bang resulted in a universe consisting almost entirely of matter , rather than being a half-and-half mixture of matter and antimatter .
The discovery of CP violation helped to shed light on this problem by showing that this symmetry , originally thought to be perfect , was only approximate .
Particle-antiparticle pairs can annihilate each other , producing photons ; since the charges of the particle and antiparticle are opposite , charge is conserved .
For example , the antielectrons produced in natural radioactive decay quickly annihilate themselves with electrons , producing pairs of gamma rays .
Antiparticles are produced naturally in beta decay , and in the interaction of cosmic rays in the Earth 's atmosphere .
Because charge is conserved , it is not possible to create an antiparticle without either destroying a particle of the same charge -LRB- as in beta decay -RRB- , or creating a particle of the opposite charge .
The latter is seen in many processes in which both a particle and its antiparticle are created simultaneously , as in particle accelerators .
This is the inverse of the particle-antiparticle annihilation process .
Although particles and their antiparticles have opposite charges , electrically neutral particles need not be identical to their antiparticles .
The neutron , for example , is made out of quarks , the antineutron from antiquarks , and they are distinguishable from one another because neutrons and antineutrons annihilate each other upon contact .
However , other neutral particles are their own antiparticles , such as photons , the hypothetical gravitons , and WIMPs .
These are called Majorana particles and can annihilate with themselves .
History
Experiment
In 1932 , soon after the prediction of positrons by Paul Dirac , Carl D. Anderson found that cosmic-ray collisions produced these particles in a cloud chamber — a particle detector in which moving electrons -LRB- or positrons -RRB- leave behind trails as they move through the gas .
The electric charge-to-mass ratio of a particle can be measured by observing the curling of its cloud-chamber track in a magnetic field .
Originally , positrons , because of the direction that their paths curled , were mistaken for electrons travelling in the opposite direction .
The antiproton and antineutron were found by Emilio Segrè and Owen Chamberlain in 1955 at the University of California , Berkeley .
Since then the antiparticles of many other subatomic particles have been created in particle accelerator experiments .
In recent years , complete atoms of antimatter have been assembled out of antiprotons and positrons , collected in electromagnetic traps .
Hole theory
... the development of quantum field theory made the interpretation of antiparticles as holes unnecessary , even though it lingers on in many textbooks .
— Steven Weinberg in The quantum theory of fields , Vol I , p 14 , ISBN 0-521-55001-7
Solutions of the Dirac equation contained negative energy quantum states .
As a result , an electron could always radiate energy and fall into a negative energy state .
Even worse , it could keep radiating infinite amount of energy because there were infinitely many negative energy states available .
To prevent this unphysical situation from happening , Dirac proposed that a `` sea '' of negative-energy electrons fills the universe , already occupying all of the lower energy states so that , due to the Pauli exclusion principle no other electron could fall into them .
Sometimes , however , one of these negative energy particles could be lifted out of this Dirac sea to become a positive energy particle .
But when lifted out , it would leave behind a hole in the sea which would act exactly like a positive energy electron with a reversed charge .
These he interpreted as the proton , and called his paper of 1930 A theory of electrons and protons .
Dirac was aware of the problem that his picture implied an infinite negative charge for the universe .
Dirac tried to argue that we would perceive this as the normal state of zero charge .
Another difficulty was the difference in masses of the electron and the proton .
Dirac tried to argue that this was due to the electromagnetic interactions with the sea , until Hermann Weyl proved that hole theory was completely symmetric between negative and positive charges .
Dirac also predicted a reaction + → + , where an electron and a proton annihilate to give two photons .
Robert Oppenheimer and Igor Tamm proved that this would cause ordinary matter to disappear too fast .
A year later , in 1931 , Dirac modified his theory and postulated the positron , a new particle of the same mass as the electron .
The discovery of this particle the next year removed the last two objections to his theory .
However , the problem of infinite charge of the universe remains .
Also , as we now know , bosons also have antiparticles , but since they do not obey the Pauli exclusion principle , hole theory doesn't work for them .
A unified interpretation of antiparticles is now available in quantum field theory , which solves both these problems .
Particle-antiparticle annihilation
An example of a virtual pion pair which influences the propagation of a kaon causing a neutral kaon to mix with the antikaon .
This is an example of renormalization in quantum field theory — the field theory being necessary because the number of particles changes from one to two and back again .
If a particle and antiparticle are in the appropriate quantum states , then they can annihilate each other and produce other particles .
Reactions such as + → + -LRB- the two-photon annihilation of an electron-positron pair -RRB- is an example .
The single-photon annihilation of an electron-positron pair , + → can not occur because it is impossible to conserve energy and momentum together in this process .
The reverse reaction is also impossible for this reason .
However , in quantum field theory this process is allowed as an intermediate quantum state for times short enough that the violation of energy conservation can be accommodated by the uncertainty principle .
This opens the way for virtual pair production or annihilation in which a one particle quantum state may fluctuate into a two particle state and back .
These processes are important in the vacuum state and renormalization of a quantum field theory .
It also opens the way for neutral particle mixing through processes such as the one pictured here : which is a complicated example of mass renormalization .
Properties of antiparticles
Quantum states of a particle and an antiparticle can be interchanged by applying the charge conjugation -LRB- C -RRB- , parity -LRB- P -RRB- , and time reversal -LRB- T -RRB- operators .
If |p , σ,n > denotes the quantum state of a particle -LRB- n -RRB- with momentum p , spin J whose component in the z-direction is σ , then one has
where nc denotes the charge conjugate state , i.e. , the antiparticle .
This behaviour under CPT is the same as the statement that the particle and its antiparticle lie in the same irreducible representation of the Poincare group .
Properties of antiparticles can be related to those of particles through this .
If T is a good symmetry of the dynamics , then
where the proportionality sign indicates that there might be a phase on the right hand side .
In other words , particle and antiparticle must have
the same mass m
the same spin state J
opposite electric charges q and -q .
Quantum field theory
This section draws upon the ideas , language and notation of canonical quantization of a quantum field theory .
One may try to quantize an electron field without mixing the annihilation and creation operators by writing
where we use the symbol k to denote the quantum numbers p and σ of the previous section and the sign of the energy , E -LRB- k -RRB- , and ak denotes the corresponding annihilation operators .
Of course , since we are dealing with fermions , we have to have the operators satisfy canonical anti-commutation relations .
However , if one now writes down the Hamiltonian
then one sees immediately that the expectation value of H need not be positive .
This is because E -LRB- k -RRB- can have any sign whatsoever , and the combination of creation and annihilation operators has expectation value 1 or 0 .
So one has to introduce the charge conjugate antiparticle field , with its own creation and annihilation operators satisfying the relations
where k has the same p , and opposite σ and sign of the energy .
Then one can rewrite the field in the form
where the first sum is over positive energy states and the second over those of negative energy .
The energy becomes
where E0 is an infinite negative constant .
The vacuum state is defined as the state with no particle or antiparticle , i.e. , and .
Then the energy of the vacuum is exactly E0 .
Since all energies are measured relative to the vacuum , H is positive definite .
Analysis of the properties of ak and bk shows that one is the annihilation operator for particles and the other for antiparticles .
This is the case of a fermion .
This approach is due to Vladimir Fock , Wendell Furry and Robert Oppenheimer .
If one quantizes a real scalar field , then one finds that there is only one kind of annihilation operator ; therefore real scalar fields describe neutral bosons .
Since complex scalar fields admit two different kinds of annihilation operators , which are related by conjugation , such fields describe charged bosons .
The Feynman-Stueckelberg interpretation
By considering the propagation of the negative energy modes of the electron field backward in time , Ernst Stueckelberg reached a pictorial understanding of the fact that the particle and antiparticle have equal mass m and spin J but opposite charges q .
This allowed him to rewrite perturbation theory precisely in the form of diagrams .
Richard Feynman later gave an independent systematic derivation of these diagrams from a particle formalism , and they are now called Feynman diagrams .
Each line of a diagram represents a particle propagating either backward or forward in time .
This technique is the most widespread method of computing amplitudes in quantum field theory today .
Since this picture was first developed by Ernst Stueckelberg , and acquired its modern form in Feynman 's work , it is called the Feynman-Stueckelberg interpretation of antiparticles to honor both scientists .
See also
Gravitational interaction of antimatter
Parity , charge conjugation and time reversal symmetry .
CP violations and the baryon asymmetry of the universe .
Quantum field theory and the list of particles
Baryogenesis
References
Feynman , Richard P. `` The reason for antiparticles '' , in The 1986 Dirac memorial lectures , R.P. Feynman and S. Weinberg .
Cambridge University Press , 1987 .
ISBN 0-521-34000-4 .
Weinberg , Steven .
The quantum theory of fields , Volume 1 : Foundations .
Cambridge University Press , 1995 .
ISBN 0-521-55001-7 .

Hamlet (place)
Oberwil in Waldkirch -LRB- Switzerland -RRB-
A hamlet is usually a rural settlement which is too small to be considered a village , though sometimes the word is used for a different sort of community .
The name comes from Anglo-Norman hamelet -LRB- t -RRB- e ; Old French hamelet , the diminutive of OF hamel , itself derived of OF ham from Germanic heim or Anglo-Saxon hām > home .
United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom , the word ` hamlet ' has no defined legal meaning , although hamlets are recognised as part of land use planning policies and administration .
A hamlet is traditionally defined ecclesiastically as a village or settlement that usually does not have its own church , belonging to a parish of another village or town .
In modern usage it generally refers to a secondary settlement in a civil parish , after the main settlement -LRB- if any -RRB- .
Hamlets may have been formed around a single source of economic activity such as a farm , mill , mine or harbour that employed its working population .
Some hamlets , particularly those that have a medieval church , may be the result of the depopulation of a village .
The term hamlet was used in some parts of the country for an areal subdivision of a parish -LRB- which might or might not contain a settlement -RRB- .
Elsewhere , these subdivisions were called `` townships '' or `` tithings '' .
United States
New York
In New York , hamlets are unincorporated settlements within towns .
Hamlets are usually not legal entities and have no local government or official boundaries .
Their proximate location will often be noted on road signs , however .
A hamlet usually depends upon the town that contains it for municipal services and government .
A hamlet could be described as the rural or suburban equivalent of a neighborhood in a city or village .
The area of a hamlet may not be exactly defined and may simply be contained within the ZIP code of its post office , or may be defined by its school or fire district .
Some hamlets proximate to urban areas are sometimes continuous with their cities and appear to be neighborhoods , but they still are under the jurisdiction of the town .
Some hamlets -- for example , Hauppauge , with a population of over 20,000 -- are far more populous than some incorporated cities in the state .
Oregon
In Oregon , specifically in Clackamas County , a hamlet is a form of local government for small communities , which allows the citizens therein to organize and co-ordinate community activities .
Hamlets do not provide services such as utilities or fire protection , and do not have the authority to levy taxes or fees .
The first hamlet to be created in Oregon was the Hamlet of Beavercreek which was organized as a hamlet in 2006 .
Canada
In numerous provinces in Canada , there are officially designated municipalities generally smaller than villages , classified as hamlets .
Hamlets are usually small communities situated in remote areas , like Cape Dorset in Nunavut , and Enterprise and Tulita in the Northwest Territories .
However , all provinces contain a number of hamlets .
However , in Alberta , they are unincorporated settlements , as in New York .
Sherwood Park , Alberta , which has a population of more than 50,000—well above that needed for city status—has nonetheless retained hamlet status .
Fort McMurray , Alberta used to be a city , but has now been amalgamated into the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo , thus making it a hamlet .
Hamlets are always unincorporated , except in Canada 's northern territories , where they are incorporated municipalities .
Pakistan
In Pakistani a rural area equivalent to a hamlet is called Dhok ڈھوک .
In Pakistani , usually in Punjab , villages it is a small residential area separated from other such areas by lands and fields .
India
In some rural parts of India these are called `` faliya '' , especially in areas of Jhabua .
and `` Dhani '' in North-West part of India .
References
See also
Manorialism
Developed Environments
Community
Settlement types :
Hamlet
Village
Town
City
Megalopolis
Types of settlements in Russia
Developed environments :
Rural
Suburban
Urban
Exurban
Clachan
Dhani and villages
External links
Wolfhampcote : A hamlet formed by depopulation
Low Mill : A mill hamlet
`` Hamlet '' – A typical French hamlet with mill

Girl reading a Letter at an Open Window
Girl reading a Letter at an Open Window is a painting finished in 1657 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer .
It is housed in the Gemäldegalerie of Dresden .
The picture was acquired in 1724 by August III , elector of Saxony , together with a number of other paintings bought in Paris .
The seller threw in the picture as a present , to sweeten the deal .
It was then attributed to Rembrandt , and the ascription was subsequently weakened to `` manner '' or `` school of '' .
In 1783 , it was engraved as a work by Govaert Flinck .
The name `` Van der Meer from Delft '' occurred for the first time in a catalog dating from 1806 , to be changed back to Flinck in 1817 .
From 1826 to 1860 , the appellation was altered to Pieter de Hooch .
It is only since 1862 that the correct identification obtains .
The only Dutch provenance that could possibly apply is the sale Pieter van der Lip , Amsterdam , 1712 , no. 22 , `` A Woman Reading in a Room , by van der Meer of Delft fl 110 '' .
Unfortunately , the text is not specific enough to distinguish it from the one at the Rijksmuseum , Woman in Blue Reading a Letter .
The above underlines the difficulties inherent to the establishment of Vermeer 's catalog .
Not a single work can be traced back to the painter 's studio , nor are there any letters or contracts extant .
The task of attribution rests squarely upon the shoulders of the individual critic , which explains the multiplicity of divergent opinions .
In this painting , a young woman stands in the center of the composition , facing in profile an open window to the left .
In the foreground is a table covered with the same Oriental rug encountered in the Woman Asleep .
On it is the identical Delft plate with fruit .
The window reflects the girl 's features , while to the right the large green curtain forms a deceptive frame .
She is precisely silhouetted against a bare wall that reflects the light and envelops her in its luminosity .
We are here confronted with one of the salient aspects of Vermeer 's sensibility and originality .
It is the stillness that stands out , the inner absorption , the remoteness from the outer world .
She concentrates entirely upon the letter , holding it firmly and tautly , while she absorbs its content with utmost attention .
In the technique , the artist avows again Rembrandtesque derivation .
He paints in small fatty dabs to model the forms , and obtains the desired effects by means of impasto highlights opposed to the deeper tonalities - just as the master from Leyden was wont to do .
The painting is relatively large , and the smallness of the figure as opposed to its surroundings stresses immateriality and depersonalization .
Vermeer considerably changed the composition in the course of execution .
Much has been written about the trompe-l'oeil effect of the curtain .
It is a pictorial artifice used by many other Dutch masters and in keeping with an old European tradition .
Rembrandt , Gerard Dou , Nicolaes Maes , and many still-life and even landscape painters made use of such curtains as a means of simulating effects that now seem theatrical .
The light background can be found in many paintings by Carel Fabritius , the Goldfinch from 1654 at the Mauritshuis in The Hague being the most famous example .
The artist Tom Hunter borrowed the composition for his award-winning photograph of a squatter , Woman Reading a Possession Order .
References

Tahiti
Tahiti is the largest island in the Windward group of French Polynesia , located in the archipelago of Society Islands in the southern Pacific Ocean .
The island had a population of 178,133 inhabitants according to the August 2007 census .
This makes it the most populated island of French Polynesia , with 68.6 % of the total population .
The capital is Papeete , on the northwest coast .
Tahiti has also been known as O'tahiti .
Geography
250px
Districts of Tahiti
Tahiti is 45 km -LRB- 28mi -RRB- at its widest and covers 1,045 km2 -LRB- -RRB- , the highest elevation 2,241 m -LRB- 7,352 ft -RRB- -LRB- Mount Orohena -RRB- .
Mont Roonui in the southeast is 1,332 m .
The island consists of two roughly round portions centered on volcanic mountains , connected by a short isthmus named after the small town of Taravao , which sits there .
The northwestern part is Tahiti Nui -LRB- `` big Tahiti '' -RRB- , and the southeastern part , much smaller , Tahiti Iti -LRB- `` small Tahiti '' -RRB- or Taiarapu .
Tahiti Nui is heavily populated around the coast -LRB- especially around Papeete -RRB- and benefits from roads and highways .
The interior of Tahiti Nui is almost uninhabited .
Tahiti Iti has remained isolated , its southeastern half -LRB- Te Pari -RRB- accessible only by boat or hiking .
A main road winds around the island between the mountains and sea and an interior road climbs past dairy farms and citrus groves with panoramic views .
Tahiti has many swift streams , including the Papenoo in the north .
Tahiti has lush rain forests .
November through April is the wet season , the wettest month January with 13.2 inches -LRB- 335 mm -RRB- in Papeete .
August is driest with 1.9 inches -LRB- 48 mm -RRB- .
The average low is 70 °F -LRB- 21 °C -RRB- and the high 88 °F -LRB- 31 °C -RRB- with little seasonal variation .
The lowest temperature in Papeete was 61 °F -LRB- 16 °C -RRB- and the highest 93 °F -LRB- 34 °C -RRB- .
History
View of Raiatea Mountain .
The mummies of Tahitian rulers were formerly deposited on this mountain , traditionally considered holy .
Tahiti is estimated to have been settled between AD 300 and 800 by Polynesians , although some estimates place the date earlier .
The fertile soil combined with fishing provided food .
Although the first European sighting of the islands was by a Spanish ship in 1606 , Spain made no effort to trade with or colonise the island .
Samuel Wallis , an English sea captain , sighted Tahiti on 18 June , 1767 , and is considered the first European visitor .
The relaxed and contented nature of the people and the characterisation of the island as a paradise impressed early Europeans , planting the seed for a romanticisation by the West that endures to this day .
Wallis was followed in April 1768 by the French explorer Louis-Antoine de Bougainville , completing the first French circumnavigation .
Bougainville made Tahiti famous in Europe when he published Voyage autour du monde .
He described the island as an earthly paradise where men and women live happily in innocence , away from the corruption of civilization .
His account illustrated the concept of the noble savage , and influenced utopian thoughts of philosophers such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau before the French Revolution .
Tahitian girl wearing a hau ; engraving after Alfred Thomas Agate
In April 1769 Captain James Cook visited the island on secret orders from the Lords of the Admiralty to view the Transit of Venus on 2 June .
He set up camp at Matavai Bay and stayed on until 9 August .
The population was estimated to be 50,000 including all the nearby islands in the chain .
After Cook , European ships landed with greater frequency .
The best-known was HMS Bounty , whose crew mutinied after leaving Tahiti in 1789 .
The European influence disrupted traditional society , bringing prostitution , venereal disease , and alcohol .
Introduced diseases including typhus , influenza and smallpox killed so many Tahitians that by 1797 , the population was only 16,000 .
Later it was to drop as low as 6,000 .
In 1839 the island was visited by the United States Exploring Expedition ; one of its members , Alfred Thomas Agate , produced a number of sketches of Tahitian life , some of which were later published in the United States .
In 1842 , a European crisis involving Morocco escalated between France and Great Britain when Admiral Dupetit Thouars , acting independently of the French government , convinced Tahiti 's Queen Pomare IV to accept a French protectorate .
George Pritchard , a Birmingham -born missionary and acting British Consul , had been away at the time .
However he returned to work towards indoctrinating the locals against the Roman Catholic French .
In November 1843 , Dupetit-Thouars -LRB- again on his own initiative -RRB- landed sailors on the island , annexing it to France .
He then threw Pritchard into prison , subsequently sending him back to Britain .
Dupetit Thouars taking over Tahiti on September 9th , 1842 .
News of Tahiti reached Europe in early 1844 .
The French statesman François Guizot , supported by King Louis-Philippe of France , had denounced annexation of the island .
However , war between the French and the Tahitians continued until 1847 .
The island remained a French protectorate until June 29 , 1880 , when King Pomare V -LRB- 1842–1891 -RRB- was forced to cede the sovereignty of Tahiti and its dependencies to France .
He was given the titular position of Officer of the Orders of the Legion of Honour and Agricultural Merit of France .
In 1946 , Tahiti and the whole of French Polynesia became a Territoire d'outre-mer -LRB- French overseas territory -RRB- .
Tahitians were granted French citizenship , a right that had been campaigned for by nationalist leader Marcel Pouvana'a A Oopa for many years .
In 2003 , French Polynesia 's status was changed to that of Collectivité d'outre-mer -LRB- French overseas community -RRB- .
French painter Paul Gauguin lived on Tahiti in the 1890s and painted many Tahitian subjects .
Papeari has a small Gauguin museum .
Politics
Tahitians are French citizens with nearly full civil and political rights .
The Tahitian language and the French language are both in use .
Tahiti is part of French Polynesia -LRB- Polynésie Française -RRB- .
French Polynesia is a semi-autonomous territory of France with its own assembly , president , budget and laws .
France 's influence is limited to subsidies , education and security .
The former President of French Polynesia , Oscar Temaru , advocates full independence from France , however , only about 20 % of the population is in favour .
Tahitian Women on the Beach -LRB- 1891 -RRB- by Paul Gauguin
During a press conference on June 26 , 2006 during the second France-Oceania Summit , French President Jacques Chirac said he did not think the majority of Tahitians wanted independence .
He would keep an open door to a possible referendum in the future .
Elections for the Assembly of French Polynesia , the Territorial Assembly of French Polynesia , were held on May 23 , 2004 -LRB- see French Polynesian legislative election , 2004 -RRB- .
In a surprise result , Oscar Temaru ` s pro-independence progressive coalition formed a Government with a one-seat majority in the 57-seat parliament , defeating the conservative party led by Gaston Flosse -LRB- see also List of political parties in French Polynesia -RRB- .
On October 8 , 2004 , Flosse succeeded in passing a censure motion against the Government , provoking a crisis .
A controversy is whether the national government of France should use its power to call for new elections in a local government in case of a political crisis .
Demographics
The people are of Polynesian -LRB- Pacific Islander -RRB- ancestry , so-called Demis , as well as of European ancestry and the people of East Asian -LRB- essentially Chinese -RRB- ancestry are concentrated in Tahiti , making up a larger share of the population in Tahiti than in French Polynesia overall -LRB- see Demographics section at French Polynesia -RRB- .
Most people from metropolitan France live in Papeete and its suburbs , notably Punaauia where they make up almost 20 % of the population .
Historical population
Tahitian coast
Tourism is a significant industry , mostly to the islands of Bora Bora and Moorea .
In July , the Heiva festival in Papeete celebrates Polynesian culture and the commemoration of the storming of the Bastille in France .
After the establishment of the CEP -LRB- Centre d'Experimentation du Pacifique -RRB- in 1963 , the standard of living in French Polynesia increased considerably and many Polynesians abandoned traditional activities and many emigrated to the centre at Papeete .
Even though the standard of living is elevated -LRB- due mainly to France 's FDI investment -RRB- , the economy is reliant on imports .
At the cessation of CEP activities , France signed the Progress Pact with Tahiti to compensate the loss of financial resources and assist in education and tourism with an investment of about US $ 150 million a year from the beginning of 2006 .
The main trading partners are France for about 40 % of imports and about 25 % of exports , the other ports that are traded with are in USA , Japan , Australia and New Zealand .
Tautira
Black pearl farming is also a substantial source of revenues , most of the pearls being exported to Japan , Europe and the US .
Tahiti also exports vanilla , fruits , flowers , monoi , fish , coprah oil , and noni .
Unemployment affects about 13 % of the active population , especially women and unqualified young people .
Tahiti’s currency , the French Pacific Franc -LRB- CFP , also known as XPF -RRB- , is pegged to the Euro at 1 CFP = EUR .00838 -LRB- approx. 81 CFP to the US Dollar in January 2008 -RRB- .
Hotels and financial institutions offer exchange services .
There is no sales tax in Tahiti .
However , a 2 % reduced rate Value Added Tax -LRB- VAT -RRB- applies to rented accommodation -LRB- hotel rooms , pensions and family stays -RRB- , and room and meal packages for tourists .
A 4 % rate applies to purchases in shops , stores and boutiques .
A 6 % rate applies to bars , excursions , car rentals , snacks and restaurants .
Education
Tahiti hosts a French university , Université de la Polynésie Française -LRB- `` University of French Polynesia '' -RRB- .
It is a growing university , with 2,000 students and 60 researchers .
Many courses are available such as law , commerce , science and literature .
Dance
The -LSB- -LSB- ʻōteʻa -RSB- -RSB- , sometimes written as otea , is a traditional dance from Tahiti , where the dancers , standing in several rows , execute different figures .
This dance , easily recognized by its `` fast hip-shaking , '' is often confused with the Hawaiian Hula , a generally slower dance which focuses more on the hands than the hips .
The ʻōteʻa is one of the few dances which already existed in pre-European times as a male dance .
The hura -LRB- Tahitian vernacular for hula -RRB- , a dance for women , on the other hand has disappeared , and likewise is gone the couple 's dance ʻupaʻupa but which may have reemerged as the tāmūrē .
Nowadays , however the ʻōteʻa can be danced by men -LRB- ʻōteʻa tāne -RRB- , by women -LRB- ʻōteʻa vahine -RRB- , or by both gender -LRB- ʻōteʻa ʻāmui = united ʻō. -RRB- .
The dance is with music only , drums , but no singing .
The drum can be one of the different types of the tōʻere , a laying log of wood with a longitudinal slit , which is struck by one or two sticks .
Or it can be the pahu , the ancient Tahitian standing drum covered with a shark skin and struck by the hands or with sticks .
The rhythm from the tōʻere is fast , from the pahu it is slower .
A smaller drum , the faʻatētē can also be used .
The dancers make gestures , reenacting daily occupations of life .
For the men the themes can be chosen from warfare or sailing , and then they may use spears or paddles .
For women the themes are closer to home or from nature , combing their hair , or the flight of a butterfly for example .
But also more elaborate themes can be chosen , for example one where the dancers end up in a map of Tahiti , highlighting important places .
In a proper ʻōteʻa the story of the theme should pervade the whole dance .
Transport
Air Tahiti Nui .
Faa'a International Airport is the international airport of Tahiti with Air Tahiti Nui being the national airline while Air Tahiti is the main airline for inter-island flights .
The Moorea Ferry is also a notable ferry that operates from Papeete .
There are also several ferries that transport people and goods throughout the islands .
References
See also
List of volcanoes in French Polynesia
Music of Tahiti
Postage stamps and postal history of French Polynesia
Tahitian language
Nuclear-free zone
Cultural variations in adoption # Polynesia
External links
Official Website -LRB- Tahiti Tourism Board -RRB-
Map of French Polynesia
CIA Factbook entry
University of French Polynesia
Photogallery of Society Islands
Faufa'a Tupuna , le wiki consacré au patrimoine culturel polynésien
Tahitian Heritage with Google maps
Tahiti is at coordinates
The Tahitian art of ukuleles

Aesculus
For the South African Thoroughbred racehorse , see : Horse Chestnut -LRB- horse -RRB- .
For the Ancient Greek playwright , see : Aeschylus .
The genus Aesculus -LRB- -RRB- , the buckeyes and Horse Chestnuts , comprises 13-19 species of woody trees and shrubs native to the temperate northern hemisphere , with 6 species native to North America and 7-13 species native to Eurasia ; there are also several hybrids .
Species are deciduous or evergreen .
This genus has traditionally been treated in the ditypic family Hippocastanaceae along with Billia , but recent phylogenetic analysis of morphological and molecular data has led to this family , along with the Aceraceae -LRB- Maples and Dipteronia -RRB- , being included in the soapberry family -LRB- Sapindaceae -RRB- .
The North American species are known as buckeyes and the Eurasian species as Horse Chestnuts .
Some are also called white chestnut or red chestnut -LRB- as in some of the Bach flower remedies -RRB- .
In Britain , they are sometimes called conker trees because of their link with the game of conkers , played with the seeds , also called conkers .
Etymology
The name Horse Chestnut is also often given as `` horse chestnut '' or `` horsechestnut '' .
One species very popular in cultivation , the Common Horse Chestnut Aesculus hippocastanum is also often known as just `` Horse Chestnut '' .
Linnaeus named the genus Aesculus after the Roman name for an edible acorn .
The use of the term `` horse '' refers to their strength or inedibility , and does not here refer to their fitness as fodder for horses , except in folk etymology .
The name buckeye derives from the resemblance of the seed to the brown eye of a buck -LRB- male deer -RRB- , and Horse Chestnut from the external resemblance of the seed to a chestnut , but being inedible .
The buckeye blooms in summer and the Horse Chestnut in late spring .
Description
Horse chestnut flowers in Ayrshire , Scotland .
Aesculus are woody plants from 4 to 36m tall -LRB- depending on species -RRB- , and have stout shoots with resinous , often sticky , buds ; opposite , palmately divided leaves , often very large -LRB- to 65 cm across in the Japanese Horse Chestnut Aesculus turbinata -RRB- .
Flowers showy , insect-pollinated , with four or five petals fused into a lobed corolla tube , arranged in a panicle inflorescence .
Flowering starts after 80–110 growing degree days .
The fruit matures to a capsule 2–5 cm diameter , usually globose with 1-3 seeds -LRB- often erroneously called nuts -RRB- per capsule , more than 2 results in seeds being flat on one side ; the point of attachment of the seed in the capsule -LRB- hilum -RRB- shows as a large circular whitish scar .
The capsule epidermis has `` spines '' -LRB- botanically : prickles -RRB- in some species , other capsules are warty or smooth ; capsule splits into three sections to release the seeds .
Cultivation
Flower of the red Horse Chestnut -LRB- Aesculus x carnea -RRB-
The most familiar member of the genus worldwide is the Common Horse Chestnut Aesculus hippocastanum , native to a small area of the Balkans in southeast Europe , but widely cultivated throughout the temperate world .
The yellow buckeye Aesculus flava -LRB- syn. A. octandra -RRB- is also a valuable ornamental tree with yellow flowers , but is less widely planted .
Among the smaller species , the bottlebrush buckeye Aesculus parviflora also makes a very interesting and unusual flowering shrub .
Several other members of the genus are used as ornamentals , and several horticultural hybrids have also been developed , most notably the red Horse Chestnut Aesculus × carnea , a hybrid between A. hippocastanum and A. pavia .
They are generally fairly problem-free , though a recently discovered leaf-mining moth Cameraria ohridella is currently causing major problems in much of Europe , causing premature leaf fall which looks very unattractive .
The symptoms -LRB- brown blotches on the leaves -RRB- can be confused with damage caused by the leaf fungus Guignardia aesculi , which is also very common but usually less serious .
Common Horse Chestnut is also used as a food plant by the sycamore , another species of moth .
Another disease in parts of North West Europe and North America is bleeding canker .
Uses
The nuts contain high concentrations of a saponin -class toxin called aesculin , which is toxic to many animals including humans because it causes hemolysis -LRB- destruction of red blood cells -RRB- .
The saponin can be eliminated by leaching the pulverized nuts in multiple changes of boiling water , to yield a wholesome starchy porridge once important to some Native American peoples .
Some animals , notably deer and squirrels , are resistant to the toxins and can eat the nuts directly .
An interesting side-note is that aesculin is a natural pH indicator which , when extracted turns from colorless to fluorescent blue under UV light in an acidic pH range .
California buckeye Aesculus californica is known to cause poisoning of honeybees from toxic nectar -LRB- native bee species not being affected -RRB- .
Other buckeye species are thought to have the same effect , but the toxins are diluted because the trees are not usually abundant enough in any one area .
The wood is very pale whitish-brown , fairly soft and little-used .
Uses include cheap furniture , boxes and firewood .
In Britain and Ireland the game of conkers remains a common childhood pastime .
In some cultures , the buckeye tree is thought to bring good luck .
The Mexican buckeye is related to Aesculus , but is in a separate genus , Ungnadia .
In the TV show Grow Your Own Drugs , a recipe is provided for making horse chestnuts into a lotion to help with varicose veins .
Extractives of the seeds have been shown to be useful for the treatment of chronic venous insufficiency .
References
Gallery
External links
Germplasm Resources Information Network : Aesculus
Forest , F. , Drouin , J. N. , Charest , R. , Brouillet , L. , & Bruneau A. -LRB- 2001 -RRB- .
A morphological phylogenetic analysis of Aesculus L. and Billia Peyr .
-LRB- Sapindaceae -RRB- .
Canad .
J. Botany 79 -LRB- 2 -RRB- : 154-169 .
Abstract .
Aesculus glabra -LRB- Ohio buckeye -RRB- King 's American Dispensatory
Winter ID pictures

Partially ordered set
The Hasse diagram of the set of all subsets of a three-element set -LCB- x , y , z -RCB- , ordered by inclusion .
In mathematics , especially order theory , a partially ordered set -LRB- or poset -RRB- formalizes the intuitive concept of an ordering , sequencing , or arrangement of the elements of a set .
A poset consists of a set together with a binary relation that describes , for certain pairs of elements in the set , the requirement that one of the elements must precede the other .
However , a partially ordered set differs from a total order in that some pairs of elements may not be related to each other in this way .
A finite poset can be visualized through its Hasse diagram , which depicts the ordering relation between certain pairs of elements and allows one to reconstruct the whole partial order structure .
A familiar real-life example of a partially ordered set is a collection of people ordered by genealogical descendancy .
Some pairs of people bear the ancestor-descendant relationship , but other pairs bear no such relationship .
Formal definition
A partial order is a binary relation `` ≤ '' over a set P which is reflexive , antisymmetric , and transitive , i.e. , for all a , b , and c in P , we have that :
a ≤ a -LRB- reflexivity -RRB- ;
if a ≤ b and b ≤ a then a = b -LRB- antisymmetry -RRB- ;
if a ≤ b and b ≤ c then a ≤ c -LRB- transitivity -RRB- .
In other words , a partial order is an antisymmetric preorder .
A set with a partial order is called a partially ordered set -LRB- also called a poset -RRB- .
The term ordered set is sometimes also used for posets , as long as it is clear from the context that no other kinds of orders are meant .
In particular , totally ordered sets can also be referred to as `` ordered sets '' , especially in areas where these structures are more common than posets .
Examples
Standard examples of posets arising in mathematics include :
The real numbers ordered by the standard less-than-or-equal relation ≤ -LRB- a totally ordered set as well -RRB- .
The set of natural numbers equipped with the relation of divisibility .
The set of subsets of a given set -LRB- its power set -RRB- ordered by inclusion -LRB- see the figure on top-right -RRB- .
The set of subspaces of a vector space ordered by inclusion .
For a partially ordered set P , the sequence space containing all sequences of elements from P , where sequence a precedes sequence b if every item in a precedes the corresponding item in b. Formally , if and only if for all n in N .
For a set X and a partially ordered set P , the function space containing all functions from X to P , where f ≤ g if and only if f -LRB- x -RRB- ≤ g -LRB- x -RRB- for all x in X .
The vertex set of a directed acyclic graph ordered by reachability .
A fence , a partially ordered set defined by an alternating sequence of order relations a < b > c < d ...
Extrema
There are several notions of `` greatest '' and `` least '' element in a poset , notably :
Greatest element and least element
Maximal elements and minimal elements
Upper and lower bounds
Orders on the Cartesian product of partially ordered sets
In order of increasing strength , i.e. , decreasing sets of pairs , three of the possible partial orders on the Cartesian product of two partially ordered sets are :
Lexicographical order : -LRB- a , b -RRB- ≤ -LRB- c , d -RRB- if and only if a < c or -LRB- a = c and b ≤ d -RRB- .
-LRB- a , b -RRB- ≤ -LRB- c , d -RRB- if and only if a ≤ c and b ≤ d -LRB- the product order -RRB- .
-LRB- a , b -RRB- ≤ -LRB- c , d -RRB- if and only if -LRB- a < c and b < d -RRB- or -LRB- a = c and b = d -RRB- -LRB- the reflexive closure of the of the corresponding strict total orders -RRB- .
All three can similarly be defined for the Cartesian product of more than two sets .
Applied to ordered vector spaces over the same field , the result is in each case also an ordered vector space .
See also .
Strict and non-strict partial orders
In some contexts , the partial order defined above is called a non-strict -LRB- or reflexive , or weak -RRB- partial order .
In these contexts a strict -LRB- or irreflexive -RRB- partial order `` < `` is a binary relation that is irreflexive and transitive , and therefore asymmetric .
In other words , asymmetric -LRB- hence irreflexive -RRB- and transitive .
Thus , for all a , b , and c in P , we have that :
¬ -LRB- a < a -RRB- -LRB- irreflexivity -RRB- ;
if a < b then ¬ -LRB- b < a -RRB- -LRB- asymmetry -RRB- ; and
if a < b and b < c then a < c -LRB- transitivity -RRB- .
There is a 1-to-1 correspondence between all non-strict and strict partial orders .
If `` ≤ '' is a non-strict partial order , then the corresponding strict partial order `` < `` is the reflexive reduction given by :
a < b if and only if -LRB- a ≤ b and a ≠ b -RRB-
Conversely , if `` < `` is a strict partial order , then the corresponding non-strict partial order `` < `` is the `` ≤ '' given by :
a ≤ b if and only if a < b or a = b .
This is the reason for using the notation `` ≤ '' .
Strict partial orders are useful because they correspond more directly to directed acyclic graphs -LRB- dags -RRB- : every strict partial order is a dag , and the transitive closure of a dag is both a strict partial order and also a dag itself .
Inverse and order dual
The inverse or converse ≥ of a partial order relation ≤ satisfies x≥y if and only if y≤x .
The inverse of a partial order relation is reflexive , transitive , and antisymmetric , and hence itself a partial order relation .
The order dual of a partially ordered set is the same set with the partial order relation replaced by its inverse .
The irreflexive relation > is to ≥ as < is to ≤ .
Any of these four relations ≤ , < , ≥ , and > on a given set uniquely determine the other three .
In general two elements x and y of a partial order may stand in any of four mutually exclusive relationships to each other : either x < y , or x = y , or x > y , or x and y are incomparable -LRB- none of the other three -RRB- .
A totally ordered set is one that rules out this fourth possibility : all pairs of elements are comparable and we then say that trichotomy holds .
The natural numbers , the integers , the rationals , and the reals are all totally ordered by their algebraic -LRB- signed -RRB- magnitude whereas the complex numbers are not .
This is not to say that the complex numbers can not be totally ordered ; we could for example order them lexicographically via x+iy < u+iv if and only if x < u or -LRB- x = u and y < v -RRB- , but this is not ordering by magnitude in any reasonable sense as it makes 1 greater than 100i .
Ordering them by absolute magnitude yields a preorder in which all pairs are comparable , but this is not a partial order since 1 and i have the same absolute magnitude but are not equal , violating antisymmetry .
Number of partial orders
Partially ordered set of set of all subsets of a six-element set -LCB- a , b , c , d , e , f -RCB- , ordered by the subset relation .
Sequence -LSB- A001035 -RSB- in OEIS gives the number of partial orders on a set of n elements :
The number of strict partial orders is the same as that of partial orders .
Linear extension
A total order T is a linear extension of a partial order P if , whenever x ≤ y in P it also holds that x ≤ y in T .
Every partial order can be extended to a total order -LRB- order-extension principle -RRB- .
In computer science , algorithms for finding linear extensions of partial orders are called topological sorting .
In category theory
Every poset -LRB- and every preorder -RRB- may be considered as a category in which every hom-set has at most one element .
More explicitly , let hom -LRB- x , y -RRB- = -LCB- -LRB- x , y -RRB- -RCB- if x ≤ y -LRB- and otherwise the empty set -RRB- and -LRB- y , z -RRB- o -LRB- x , y -RRB- = -LRB- x , z -RRB- .
Posets are equivalent to one another if and only if they are isomorphic .
In a poset , the smallest element , if any , is an initial object , and the largest element , if any , a terminal object .
Also , every preordered set is equivalent to a poset .
Finally , every subcategory of a poset is isomorphism-closed .
A functor from a poset category -LRB- a diagram indexed by a poset category -RRB- is a commutative diagram .
Partial orders in topological spaces
If P is a partially ordered set that has also been given the structure of a topological space , then it is customary to assume that is a closed subset of the topological product space .
Under this assumption partial order relations are well behaved in limits ; if
and for all i , then ; see .
Interval
For a ≤ b , the closed interval -LSB- a , b -RSB- is the set of elements x satisfying a ≤ x ≤ b -LRB- i.e. a ≤ x and x ≤ b -RRB- .
It contains at least the elements a and b .
Using the corresponding strict relation `` < `` , the open interval -LRB- a , b -RRB- is the set of elements x satisfying a < x < b -LRB- i.e. a < x and x < b -RRB- .
An open interval may be empty even if a < b .
Sometimes the definitions are extended to allow a > b , in which case the interval is empty .
The half-open intervals -LSB- a , b -RRB- and -LRB- a , b -RSB- are defined similarly .
A poset is locally finite if every interval is finite .
For example , the integers are locally finite under their natural ordering .
This concept of an interval in a partial order should not be confused with the particular class of partial orders known as the interval orders .
See also
antimatroid , a formalization of orderings on a set that allows more general families of orderings than posets
causal set
comparability graph
directed set
equivalence relation
graded poset
Hasse diagram
lattice
Maximal element
order theory
ordered group
poset topology , a kind of topological space that can be defined from any poset
preorder -LRB- a binary relation that is reflexive and transitive , but not necessarily antisymmetric -RRB-
strict weak ordering - strict partial order `` < `` in which the relation `` neither a < b nor b < a '' is transitive .
complete partial order
Footnotes
References
Jayant V. Deshpande , On Continuity of a Partial Order , Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society , Vol. 19 , No. 2 , 1968 , pp. 383-386
Bernd S. W. Schröder , Ordered Sets : An Introduction -LRB- Boston : Birkhäuser , 2003 -RRB-
Richard P. Stanley , Enumerative Combinatorics , vol.1 , Cambridge Studies in Advanced Mathematics 49 , Cambridge University Press , ISBN 0-521-66351-2
External links
sequence -LSB- A001035 -RSB- in OEIS : number of partial orders on a set of n elements .

Foil (fencing)
Parts of a foil
A foil is a type of weapon used in fencing .
It is the most common weapon in terms of usage in competition , and is usually the choice for elementary classes for fencing in general .
Components
There are two varieties of foil in use today : the `` dry '' , or nonelectric , foil ; and the electrically scored foil .
The components common to both varieties are the pommel , grip , guard , thumb pad , and blade .
The nonelectric foil has a real tip with a blunted end that is capped with a plastic or rubber knob .
The electric foil also contains a socket underneath the guard that connects to the scoring apparatus via the body cord and a wire that runs down a channel cut into the top of the blade .
The tip of the electric foil terminates in a button assembly that generally consists of a barrel , plunger , spring , and retaining screws .
The circuit is a `` normally closed '' one , meaning that at rest there is always a complete power circuit .
Depressing the tip breaks this circuit , and the scoring apparatus illuminates an appropriate light : white for hits not on the valid target area , or either red or green representing hits on the valid target area .
The pommel , a type of threaded fastener used to fasten blade , guard , plug , and grip assemblies together , is specific to the type of grip that is used .
There are two types of grips used for foils : straight grips with long , external pommels , comprising the French , Italian , and Spanish varieties , and orthopedic , or pistol grips , which are designed to fix the hand in a specific position and have pommels that fit into a countersink in the back of the grip .
Electric foil plugs are fixed so that the body cord plugs into the weapon along the inside of the wrist .
There are two varieties in use today : the two-prong variety which has unequal diameter prongs and is held in place by a retaining clip , and the single-prong Bayonette which twist-locks into place .
Foil guards are limited to a diameter of 9.5 to 12 cm in international competition .
Foil blades are made of tempered and annealed , low-carbon steel and are designed to bend upon striking an opponent in order to both prevent injuries and breakage of the blade .
For international competition maraging steel is required .
The foil blade is no more than 90 cm in length with a blunted -LRB- or foiled -RRB- tip .
The overall weight of the full assembled weapon is at most 500 g , and the maximum length of the assembled weapon is 110 cm .
The blade itself is subdivided into 3 regions : the foible , or weak , at the last third of the blade near the tip , the medium , and the forte , or strong , is the third of the blade near the guard .
Inside of the grip is the tang which is threaded at the end to allow the pommel to fasten the foil assembly together .
Where an Italian grip is used a ricosso extends from under the guard , inside of the grip 's quillons , into the tang .
History
An Italian-grip foil .
While still in use with many classical fencers , most competitive fencers have abandoned the Italian grip .
The modern foil is descended from the training weapon for the small-sword , the common sidearm of 18th century gentleman .
Rapier and even longsword foils are also known to have been used , but they were very different in terms of weight and use .
The target area for modern foil is said to come from a time when fencing was practiced with limited safety equipment .
Another factor in the target area is that foil rules are derived from a period when dueling to the death was the norm .
Hence , the favored target area is the torso , where the vital organs are .
Modern foil
In modern sport fencing , the foil is used as a thrusting weapon only .
Any contact with the side of the blade -LRB- a slap -RRB- does not result in a score .
Modern foils average 35 inches or 89cm in length , and have standardized , tapered , quadrangular blades which are designed to present a blunt -LRB- and therefore non-lethal -RRB- tip should they snap .
To score a touch , one must touch an opponent with the tip of the foil with a force of over 4.90 newtons -LRB- 500 grams-force -RRB- .
Foil is governed by right of way rules .
As such , points are not necessarily awarded to the first fencer to hit , but to the fencer who hits with priority .
Priority is established when one fencer starts an attack .
After this , the defender can gain priority by making the attack fail -LRB- e.g. by making a parry -RRB- then initiating a counter attack or riposte .
The initial attacker regains priority if the defender 's riposte fails .
The priority continues to exchange between the fencers until a hit is scored .
As of January 2009 , the target has been extended to include that part of the bib below a horizontal line at shoulder level , 1.5 to 2 cm below the chin .
As with any fencing weapon , protective equipment must be worn when fencing with foils ; this includes a jacket , glove , mask , and knickers -LRB- known as breeches in the UK -RRB- .
In electric fencing , the tip of the foil must be depressed while in contact with the opponent 's lamé -LRB- wire-mesh jacket which covers valid target area -RRB- to score a touch .
As of 2009 , in order to offset an issue whereby the bib of the fencing mask would cover an unfairly large area of the jacket on smaller fencers , the target area has been extended to the lower part of the bib , eliminating bib coverage .
Recently , the FIE changed the timing in the scoring box to minimize the flick .
The foil uses a normally closed electrical circuit , and any break in the circuit -LRB- broken wire , loose barrel , grip , or other parts , and especially depressing the tip -RRB- opens the circuit and the scoring box illuminates the appropriate light .
Prior to this timing change , a break of 2ms in the circuit would fire the light , which is one reason the flick hit worked so frequently if properly executed -- even a relatively flat hit on the back would move the tip around inside the barrel enough for that momentary break in the circuit and fire the light .
However , the timing has now been reset so that the tip must be depressed for at least 15 milliseconds before the lights will be triggered .
This is a seemingly tiny change , but it has resulted in a significant drop in the number of flicks that are successful , especially those to the back .
Scoring
The score is kept in foil fencing by counting the number of hits which land on the opponent 's valid target area and have priority .
These hits are called touches .
Any hit with the tip of the weapon will halt play ; however , only hits which arrive on the valid target area can potentially be scored .
Bouts are typically either scored up to either five or fifteen touches depending on the format of the competition .
There are rules which govern the priority of a hit when both fencers hit with the tip of the weapon .
These collective rules are commonly referred to as `` right of way . ''
In general , rules of priority require that when attacked , a fencer must either avoid or defend against the attack in order to be awarded a touch .
A simplified explanation of priority is that the attacking fencer 's hit counts unless the attack misses or is parried .
Counter-attacks only score if the attacker misses .
If the attack is parried , the defender has the right to riposte .
Should the attacker continue anyway , the remise is counted as a counter-attack .
An attacker 's off-target hit , although it does not score , still takes priority over a counter-attacker 's valid hit .
Slower , simple attacks have priority over counter-attacks which may actually land first .
As a result , cavalier attempts to hit are not rewarded .
In order to initiate an attack a fencer must be making a threatening motion towards the target area of the opponent .
The arm must be extended or extending towards the opponent prior to starting the lunge or flèche .
When performing a compound attack the fencer must not withdraw the arm by bending the elbow .
These stipulations mean that , in the event of both fencers hitting with the tip , the hit made by a fencer that initiates an attack will have priority if :
the opponent attempts a stop-hit into a simple attack .
the opponent attempts a stop-hit into a compound attack but isn't in time .
the opponent attempts to avoid the touch but fails to do so .
the opponent parries the attack but pauses before the riposte .
while having the point in-line , the opponent 's blade is deflected and returned to the in-line position without first parrying the attacker 's blade .
The hit made by a fencer that is attacked will have priority over the hit of the attacker if :
the fencer already has the blade in the point-in-line position .
the attacker attempts to deflect the blade and fails to find it during with the fencer hits the attacker .
the fencers beats the blade while the attacker is executing a compound attack and the attacker continues the attack anyway .
the attacker makes a pause or withdraws the arm during a compound attack during which the fencer hits the attacker .
the attacker is executing a compound attack and the fencer executes a stop-hit which is in time .
the fencer parries the attack and makes an immediate riposte .
Because of the rapidity with which actions in foil fencing are executed it is common for both fencers to believe their touch has priority .
An important job of the referee is to have an omniscient perspective -LRB- being on the side of and at a distance from the action -RRB- , describe the phrase after each halt in play , and determine the priority of the touch .
When hits are judged electronically , only the electronic apparatus will determine if a hit has occurred and if it was on the valid target area .
If judged non-electrically , a jury of four judges -LRB- two for each fencer -RRB- will determine the validity of the touch with the referee also acting as tie-breaking judge -LRB- or overruling a judge if one of the two abstains -RRB- .
Touches are also awarded to a fencer if the opponent leaves the end of the strip with both feet .
Should a fencer incur a red-card penalty , the opponent will be awarded a touch .
A red-card penalty made after an opponent scores a valid touch will result in two touches being awarded to the opponent .
Style of play
Like Sabre , Foil is governed by the rules of Right-of-Way .
Because of this , much of foil fencing is consisted of fencers battling for right-of-way .
When one fencer makes an attack , the opposing foil fencer will usually attempt to parry the attack and , if this is successful , riposte .
To avoid being parried , the attacker may use several tactics , such as disengages or coupés , which are different ways to avoid the opponent 's blade .
Also , some attacks may begin with an absence of blade , that is to say , the attacker moves forward with his blade out of the range where the defender could parry it .
The ending objective of such an attack is to place the blade in too short a time for him/her to react .
Because of the precise order and timing of movements needed to fence foil , a single misstep often results in a touch for the opponent .
Fencers must not only be striving for the touch , but be keenly aware of their own openings .
Also , like épée fencers , foil fencers may `` cross-over '' with their feet .
Therefore , the flèche is a common tactic in both weapons .
World rankings
Men
1. Andrea CASSARÀ -LRB- ITA -RRB-
2. Peter JOPPICH -LRB- GER -RRB- - Reigning World Champion
3. Benjamin KLEIBRINK -LRB- GER -RRB- - Reigning Olympic Champion
4. Erwan LE PECHOUX -LRB- FRA -RRB-
5. ZHU Jun -LRB- CHN -RRB-
6. OTA Yuki -LRB- JPN -RRB-
7. LEI Sheng -LRB- CHN -RRB-
8. CHOI Byung Chul -LRB- KOR -RRB-
9. Earl Jameson -LRB- BEL -RRB-
10. Andrea BALDINI -LRB- ITA -RRB-
11. Salvatore SANZO -LRB- ITA -RRB-
Women
1. Valentina VEZZALI -LRB- ITA -RRB- - Reigning World Champion and Olympic Champion
2. NAM Hyun Hee -LRB- KOR -RRB-
3. Giovanna TRILLINI -LRB- ITA -RRB-
4. Carolin GOLUBYTSKYI -LRB- GER -RRB-
5. Margherite GRANBASSI -LRB- ITA -RRB-
6. Adeline WUILLEME -LRB- FRA -RRB-
7. Corrine MAITREJEAN -LRB- FRA -RRB-
8. SUGAWARA Chieko -LRB- JPN -RRB-
9. Emily CROSS -LRB- USA -RRB-
10. Eugyenia LAMONOVA -LRB- RUS -RRB-
NOTE : These rankings are accurate as of January 25 , 2009 Olympic Champion
References
1 FIE Rules and recent updates in English can be found at : http : //www.britishfencing.com/British_Fencing.asp ? PageID=183
2 Related Wikepedia Website on `` flicking '' in foil fencing : http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flick_ -LRB- fencing -RRB-
3 FIE Rule `` The foil is a thrusting weapon only '' is a frequently violated rule in Foil Fencing and Refereeing :
Please read the FIE Foil rules as taken from the public domain British translation in Ref 1 above :
`` PART 2 .
FOIL
THE CONVENTIONS OF FENCING
METHOD OF MAKING A HIT
t.46. 1 .
The foil is a thrusting weapon only . ''
`` CHAPTER 6 .
REFEREEING AND JUDGING OF HITS
t.34. 1 .
By accepting a position as referee or judge , the person so designated pledges his honour to respect the Rules and to cause them to be respected , and to carry out his duties with the strictest impartiality and absolute concentration . ''
These two rules quoted above make it blatantly obvious that only thrusts are acceptable as foil attacks or ripostes AND that a Referee gives a pledge of honour to respect and uphold this rule .
Ref 2 discusses how this rule has been violated and how the FIE has changed foil electric box timings to remove opportunities for these rules to continue to be violated .
4 Fencing Discussion Forum in Yugoslav and at the bottom in English language with more on Ref 3 topic : http : //forum.mkfles.org.yu/index.php
5 Reference to training suggestions for the new foil rules : 300+-25ms riposte blocking time :
http : //forum.mkfles.org.yu/viewtopic.php ? id=63
6 Reference to teaching children fencing footwork - games to play
http : //forum.mkfles.org.yu/viewtopic.php ? id=65
See also
Sabre -LRB- fencing -RRB-
Épée
Colichemarde
Fencing
List of American foil fencers
Rapier

Sudan Liberation Movement/Army
The Sudan Liberation Movement/Army or -LRB- Arabic : حركة تحرير السودانḥarakat taḥrīr as-Sūdan -RRB- -LRB- abbreviated as either SLM or SLA -RRB- is a Sudanese rebel group .
It was founded as the Darfur Liberation Front by members of the non- Arabized tribes of Darfur , the Fur , the Zaghawa and the Masalit .
among whom were Abdul Wahid al Nur of the Fur and Minni Minnawi of the Zaghawa .
Formation
After General Omar al-Bashir , and the National Islamic Front headed by Dr. Hassan al-Turabi , overthrew the Sudanese government in 1989 , Darfur , and particularly the non-arabized tribes in Darfur , began to feel increasingly marginalized .
These feeling were crystallized by the publication in 2000 of The Black Book , that detailed the structural inequity in the Sudan .
In 2002 Abdul Wahid al Nur , a lawyer , Ahmad Abdel Shafi Bassey , an education student , and a third man founded the Darfur Liberation Front which was subsequently renamed the Sudan Liberation Movement , and claimed to represented all of the oppressed in the Sudan .
History
By 2006 the SLM had divided into two groups , one led by al Nur and the other , far larger , led by Minnawi .
Minnawi signed the Darfur Peace Accords ; however , al Nur did not , as his concerns about restitution for victims had not been addressed .
Notes
External links
al-Nur , Abdel Wahid `` SLM statement on the secular state '' Sudan Tribune 3 January 2007 , from Internet Archive
Reed , Ryan Spencer -LRB- 2007 -RRB- `` Darfur Photographic Exhibition - The Cost of Silence '' - Documentary photographer 's images of Sudan 's rebels including the Sudan Liberation Army

Pietro Pomponazzi
Pietro Pomponazzi -LRB- September 16 , 1462 – May 18 , 1525 -RRB- was an Italian philosopher .
He is sometimes known by his Latin name , Petrus Pomponatius .
Pomponazzi was born in Mantua and began his education there .
He completed his studies at Padua , where he became a medical doctor in 1487 .
In 1488 he was elected extraordinary professor of philosophy at Padua , where he was a colleague of Alessandro Achillini , the Averroist .
From about 1495 to 1509 he occupied the chair of natural philosophy until the closing of the schools of Padua , when he took a professorship at Ferrara where he lectured on the Aristotle 's De anima -LRB- the soul -RRB- .
In 1512 he was invited to Bologna where he remained until his death and where he produced all his important works .
The predominance of medical science at Padua had cramped his energies , but at Ferrara , and even more at Bologna , the study of psychology and theological speculation were more important .
In 1516 he produced his great work De immortalitate animae -LRB- On the Immortality of the Soul -RRB- , which gave rise to a storm of controversy between the orthodox Thomists of the Catholic Church , the Averroists headed by Agostino Nifo , and the so-called Alexandrist School .
The treatise was burned at Venice , and Pomponazzi himself ran serious risk of death at the hands of the Catholics .
Two pamphlets followed , the Apologia and the Defensorium , wherein he explained his paradoxical position as Catholic and philosophic materialist .
His last two treatises , the De incantationibus and the De fato , were posthumously published in an edition of his works printed at Basel .
Pomponazzi is profoundly interesting as the herald of the Renaissance .
He was born in the period of transition when scholastic formalism was losing its hold over men both in the Church and outside .
Hitherto the dogma of the Church had been based on Aristotle as interpreted by Thomas Aquinas .
So close was this identification that any attack on Aristotle , or even an attempt to reopen the old discussions on the Aristotelian problems , was regarded as a dangerous heresy .
Pomponazzi claimed the right to study Aristotle for himself , and devoted himself to the De anima with the view of showing that Thomas Aquinas had entirely misconceived the Aristotelian theory of the active and the passive intellect .
In On the Immortality of the Soul Pomponazzi argued specifically that Aquinas and Aristotle clash over the question of the immortality of the soul .
While Pomponazzi himself does not follow Aristotle in this respect , he argues that Aristotle very clearly argues for the absolute mortality of the soul , with only limited features of immortality .
He was not the first to make this claim , and appears to have been influenced by the Greek commentator on Aristotle , Alexander of Aphrodisias .
He further claims that the immortality of the soul can not be determined through reason , and thus must be left to the powers of God .
Since the scriptures reveal that God has made the soul immortal , argued Pomponazzi , we too can accept as true the immortality of the soul and thereby go beyond the limits of reason .
-LRB- This debate influenced his 1591-1631 successor in the chair Cesare Cremonini , whose adherence to Aristotle led to the opposite conclusion of the mortality of the soul . -RRB-
Pomponazzi declared his adherence to the Catholic faith , and despite the controversy over his initial work , it was not condemned by the Church .
Again it was established that the principle that religion and philosophy , faith and knowledge , may be diametrically opposed and yet coexist for the same thinker .
This curious paradox he exemplifies in the De incantatione , where he sums up against the existence of demons and spirits on the basis of the Aristotelian theory of the cosmos , and , as a believing Christian , asserts his faith in their existence .
In this work he insists emphatically upon the orderly sequence of nature , cause and effect .
They grow to maturity and then decay ; so religions have their day and succumb .
Even Christianity , he added -LRB- with the proviso that he is speaking as a philosopher -RRB- was showing indications of decline .
Pomponazzi died in Bologna .
References

Louis-Michel Aury
Louis-Michel Aury was a French Corsair operating in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean during the early 19th century .
Aury was born in Paris , France , in around 1788 .
He served in the French Navy , but from 1802 served in privateer ships .
By 1810 he had accumulated enough prize money to become the master of his own vessel .
He then gave his support to the Spanish colonies in South America in their fight for independence from Spain .
In April 1813 he sailed from North Carolina on his own privateer ship with Venezuelan letters-of-marque to attack Spanish ships .
He was then commissioned as `` Commodore of the Navy of New Grenada '' -LRB- Colombia -RRB- , and at great expense , evacuated hundreds of people from the besieged city of Cartagena , Colombia to Haiti .
He then argued with Simón Bolívar , leader of the Latin American revolutionaries over payment for his services .
He then accepted a commission from the fledgling Republic of Mexico as Civil and Military Governor of Texas , and established a privateering base on Galveston Island , Texas , in September 1816 .
However while Aury was away transporting Francisco Javier Mina and his men to Mexico , Jean Lafitte took control of the base at Galveston .
On his return to Texas , Aury made an ill-fated attempt to establish another base at Matagorda Bay .
He finally left Texas in 1817 to assist the Scottish adventurer Gregor MacGregor , self-styled `` Brigadier-General of the United Provinces of the New Granada and Venezuela and General-in-Chief of the armies of the two Floridas '' , in attacking Spanish Florida from Amelia Island .
MacGregor left in November but Aury remained , proclaiming the island an independent republic .
However , the US Army drove Aury out in December 1817 .
On 4 July 1818 he captured Old Providence Island -LRB- Isla de Providencia -RRB- in the western Caribbean , and began a settlement with a thriving economy based on captured Spanish cargo , while unsuccessfully trying to rebuild good relations with Bolivar .
He was thrown from a horse and killed in August 1821 , though some sources claim he was living in Havana in 1845 .
Aury attempts to liberate Central America
In 1820 , its capital was Guatemala City so Central America was still seen under the sway of Spain , thus was open to attack from its enemies .
In order attempt to secure their independence , the Colombian insurgents fitted a combined sea and land expedition to operate against the ports of Omoa and Trujillo .
On the 21st of April -LRB- 1820 -RRB- the watch-tower at Capiro in Trujillo Port , announced the approach of a Colombian flotilla .
The port 's garrison , commanded by Jose M. Palomar , at once made preparations for emergencies during the impending attack .
At two o’clock afternoon , the approaching flotilla hoisted a flag with two blue bars and a white one between them showing an escutcheon in the center .
Commodore Louis-Michel Aury dispatched a boat to shore to demand the port’s surrender within one hour .
The town did not comply .
The following day Commodore Aury moved the flotilla to the mouth of the Guaimoreto river and began bombardment .
The attack started at 9 AM and lasted until 2 PM .
The firing ceased when the flotilla was ordered out to sea and out of the reach of the port’s cannons .
A portion of the land force then attempted to enter the town by the rear , but was detected and driven out .
During the night of the 24th , the Colombian vessels dropped out of sight .
On the 25th the flotilla appeared off the port of Omoa and for several days attempted to land .
Commodore Aury was unsuccessful and left the area on the 6th of May .
It is believed that Louis-Michel Aury died the following year , but is not recognized by any of the countries he served .
Aury was perceived as a member of the Colombian fighters because of his affiliation with Simon Bolivar .
Bibliography
History of Central America , by Hubert Howe Bancroft
External links
Aury Website
Aury Biography
Louis Michel Aury international , very good multilanguage page
Louis Michel Aury -LRB- Spanish -RRB- , very complete Spanish page
Louis Michel Aury -LRB- french -RRB- , very complete French page

1936 Soviet Constitution
The 1936 Soviet constitution , adopted on December 5 , 1936 , and also known as the `` Stalin `` constitution , redesigned the government of the Soviet Union .
The constitution repealed restrictions on voting and added universal direct suffrage and the right to work to rights guaranteed by the previous constitution .
In addition , the Constitution recognized collective social and economic rights including the rights to work , rest and leisure , health protection , care in old age and sickness , housing , education , and cultural benefits .
The constitution also provided for the direct election of all government bodies and their reorganization into a single , uniform system .
Although the soviet propaganda said that the constitution was of Stalin ` s it was in fact written by a special commission including Nikolai Bukharin , Karl Radek and Yakov Yakovlev all of whom were executed in the Great Purge .
The 1936 constitution changed the name of the Central Executive Committee to the Supreme Soviet of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics .
Like its predecessor , the Supreme Soviet contained two chambers : the Soviet of the Union and the Soviet of Nationalities .
The constitution empowered the Supreme Soviet to elect commissions , which performed most of the Supreme Soviet 's work .
As under the former constitution , the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet exercised the full powers of the Supreme Soviet between sessions and had the right to interpret laws .
The Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet became the titular head of state .
The Sovnarkom -LRB- after 1946 known as the Council of Ministers -RRB- continued to act as the executive arm of the government .
Of the four Soviet constitutions , the 1936 constitution survived longest .
It was replaced in 1977 .
-LRB- See 1977 Soviet Constitution . -RRB-
The constitution provided economic rights not included in constitutions in the western democracies .
The constitution was seen as a personal triumph for Stalin , who on this occasion was described by Pravda as `` genius of the new world , the wisest man of the epoch , the great leader of communism . ''
Western historians and historians from former Soviet occupied countries have seen the constitution as a meaningless propaganda document .
Leonard Schapiro , for example , writes that `` The decision to alter the electoral system from indirect to direct election , from a limited to a universal franchise , and from open to secret voting , was a measure of the confidence of the party in its ability to ensure the return of candidates of its own choice without the restrictions formerly considered necessary , '' and that `` ... a careful scrutiny of the draft of the new constitution showed that it left the party 's supreme position unimpaired , and was therefore worthless as a guarantee of individual rights . ''
References
- Soviet Union
See also
He who does not work , neither shall he eat
External links
Full Text and All Subsequent Laws Amending the 1936 Constitution of the U.S.S.R .
English translation of 1936 Constitution
Stalin and the Struggle for Democratic Reform , by Grover Furr : Part one - Part two

1829
For the game , see : 1829 -LRB- board game -RRB- .
Year 1829 -LRB- MDCCCXXIX -RRB- was a common year starting on Thursday -LRB- link will display the full calendar -RRB- of the Gregorian Calendar -LRB- or a common year starting on Tuesday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar -RRB- .
Events of 1829
January – June
January 19 : Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
January 19 – Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ` s Faust premieres .
March 4 – Andrew Jackson succeeds John Quincy Adams as the 7th President of the United States of America .
March 22 – Greece receives autonomy from the Ottoman Empire .
This effectively ends the Greek War of Independence .
Greece continues to seek full independence through diplomatic negotiations with the Empire as well as with Russia , France and Britain .
March 31 – Pope Pius VIII succeeds Pope Leo XII as the 253rd pope .
April 1 – Vicente Guerrero becomes the president of Mexico .
April 4 – The Mexican city of Cuautla , Morelos is founded .
May 6 – An instrument called the accordion is patented by Cyrill Demian .
June 1 – The Philadelphia Inquirer is founded as The Pennsylvania Inquirer .
June 3 – The Swan River Colony -LRB- later to become the cities of Perth and Fremantle -RRB- is founded in Western Australia .
This secures the western ` third ' of the Australian landmass for the British .
June 5 – Slave trade : The HMS Pickle captures the armed slave ship Voladora off the coast of Cuba .
June 10 – The Oxford University Boat Club wins the very first boat race .
URL_http
July – December
July 2 – Russo-Turkish War , 1828-1829 : Russian Field-Marshal Hans Karl von Diebitsch launches the Transbalkan offensive , which brings the Russian army within 68 km of Istanbul .
July 23 – In the United States , William Burt obtains the first patent for a writing mechanism -LRB- see typewriter -RRB- .
August 8 – France : The Prince de Polignac succeeds the Vicomte de Martignac as Prime Minister of France .
August 10 – First ascent of Finsteraarhorn , the highest summit of the Bernese Alps .
August 12 – Mrs. Helen Dance , wife of the captain of the ship Sulphur , cuts down a tree to mark the day of the founding of the town of Perth , Western Australia .
September 16 – Russo-Turkish War , 1828-1829 : The Treaty of Adrianople gains for Russia some territory at the mouth of the Danube and along the eastern coast of the Black Sea .
October 1 – South Africa : South African College is founded .
October 8 – Rail transport : Stephenson ` s The Rocket wins The Rainhill Trials .
November 30 – The original Welland Canal opens for a trial run with a ceremony at Port Dalhousie .
December 4 – India : In the face of fierce opposition , British Lord William Bentinck carries a regulation declaring that all who abet suttee in India are guilty of culpable homicide .
Undated
Religious freedom is restored in Ireland -LRB- see History of Ireland -RRB- .
The Chalmers University of Technology is founded .
The Metropolitan Police Act 1829 is passed , establishing the first modern police force , the Metropolitan Police Service -LRB- `` bobbies '' -RRB- of London .
Births
January 3 – Konrad Duden , German philologist -LRB- d. 1911 -RRB-
January 17 – Catherine Booth , the Mother of The Salvation Army -LRB- d. 1890 -RRB-
January 21 – King Oscar II of Sweden and Norway -LRB- d. 1907 -RRB-
February 2 – Alfred Brehm , German zoologist -LRB- d. 1884 -RRB-
February 26 – Levi Strauss , American clothing designer -LRB- d. 1902 -RRB-
March 2 – Carl Schurz , German revolutionary and American statesman -LRB- d. 1906 -RRB-
March 16 – Sully Prudhomme , French author , Nobel Prize laureate -LRB- d. 1907 -RRB-
March 19 – Carl Frederik Tietgen , Danish financier and industrialist -LRB- d. 1901 -RRB-
April 10 – William Booth , the founder of The Salvation Army -LRB- d. 1912 -RRB-
May 5 – Shusaku Honinbo , Japanese Go player -LRB- d. 1862 -RRB-
May 8 – Louis Moreau Gottschalk , American composer and pianist -LRB- d. 1869 -RRB-
June 8 – John Everett Millais , Pre-Raphaelite painter -LRB- d. 1896 -RRB-
June 16 – Geronimo , Apache leader -LRB- d. 1909 -RRB-
July 14 – Edward White Benson , Archbishop of Canterbury -LRB- d. 1896 -RRB-
July 26 – Auguste Marie François Beernaert , Belgian statesman , recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize -LRB- d. 1912 -RRB-
September 7 – Friedrich August Kekulé von Stradonitz , German chemist -LRB- d. 1896 -RRB-
October 3 – Sigismund von Schlichting , Prussian general -LRB- d. 1909 -RRB-
October 5 – Chester A. Arthur , 21st President of the United States -LRB- d. 1886 -RRB-
November 28 – Anton Rubinstein , Russian pianist and composer -LRB- d. 1894 -RRB-
Deaths
January 29 – Paul François Jean Nicolas Barras , French politician -LRB- b. 1755 -RRB-
February 10 – Pope Leo XII -LRB- b. 1760 -RRB-
February 11 – Alexander Griboyedov , Russian playwright and diplomat -LRB- b. 1795 -RRB-
April 6 – Niels Henrik Abel , Norwegian mathematician -LRB- b. 1802 -RRB-
May 10 – Thomas Young , English physician and linguist -LRB- b. 1773 -RRB-
May 17 – John Jay , first Chief Justice of the United States -LRB- b. 1745 -RRB-
May 21 – Peter , Duke of Oldenburg -LRB- b. 1755 -RRB-
May 29 – Sir Humphry Davy , British chemist -LRB- b. 1778 -RRB-
May 30 – Louis Aloysius , Prince of Hohenlohe-Waldenburg-Bartenstein -LRB- b. 1765 -RRB-
June 27 – James Smithson , British mineralogist and chemist , whose fortune eventually went to the United States of America and was used to initially fund the Smithsonian Institution -LRB- b. 1765 -RRB-
July 23 – Wojciech Bogusławski , actor and director , `` father of Polish theatre '' -LRB- b. 1757 -RRB-
December 12 – John Lansing , Jr. , American statesman -LRB- disappeared -RRB- -LRB- b. 1754 -RRB-
December 28 – Jean-Baptiste Lamarck , French scientist -LRB- b. 1744 -RRB-
December 29 – Princess Henrietta of Nassau-Weilburg -LRB- b. 1797 -RRB- -LRB- scarlet fever -RRB-

Chevrolet Celebrity
The Chevrolet Celebrity was a mid-size car built by General Motors .
The Celebrity was introduced in 1981 for the 1982 model year .
Sales were strong — the Celebrity was the best-selling car in the United States in 1986 .
Celebrities were built at Oshawa Car Assembly in Ontario , Canada ; Oklahoma City , Oklahoma , Framingham , Massachusetts , Bogota , Colombia and Ramos Arizpe , Mexico .
Although sold for only one generation , it received its first facelift in 1984 , and the other in 1986 , which included a sleeker front end and a simpler taillight layout .
The Celebrity 's last facelift was in 1987 , when composite headlamps replaced the quad rectangular sealed beam units .
The coupe was discontinued after 1988 , and Celebrity production ended on July 7 , 1989 , with the exception of the wagon , which was disconinued a few months after 1989 .
The Chevrolet Celebrity was based on the front wheel drive A-body shared with the Buick Century , Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera , Oldsmobile Cutlass Cruiser and the Pontiac 6000 .
Engines :
1982-1989 Tech IV 2.5 L -LRB- 151 in3 -RRB- I4
1982-1989 2.8 L -LRB- 173 in3 -RRB- V6
1990 3.1 L -LRB- 191 in3 -RRB- V6
Part of GM 's mid-size A-body quartet , The Celebrity used the same engines as one of its siblings , the Pontiac 6000 .
The interior space and running gear were the same as the Chevrolet Citation , but the Celebrity was trimmed and equipped better .
Power steering/brakes and an automatic transmission were standard equipment in 1982 and 1983 ; the automatic became optional later on .
A roomy 4-door station wagon debuted for 1984 , as did a Eurosport handling/appearance package which included Sport Rallye rims , blacked out trim , a sporty steering wheel and a heavier duty suspension .
The Rallye rims could also be ordered with base models .
Another Model was The Celebrity CL which had woodgrain on the dash and wheel and plush seats , and the Celebrity Classic which deleted the fixed rear windows and added a mock convertible top .
The base 2.5 L `` Tech IV '' I4 engine -LRB- Pontiac 's Iron Duke -RRB- was criticized for being underpowered , but a high-output fuel-injected V6 became optional for 1986 .
The diesel engine departed after 1985 .
The Generation II engines , reworked for 1987 , now had fuel injection standard and had a new distributorless ignition system , and a new Getrag-designed 5-speed manual transmission became available with the V6 .
Balance shafts were added to the Tech IV engine for 1988 .
The coupe was dropped for the 1988 model year , replaced by the Beretta mid-size coupe .
The 4-cylinder engine received a 12 hp -LRB- 9 kW -RRB- gain late in the 1989 model year .
The Celebrity also did not share the redesigned roofline and rear quarter window panels its siblings were given -LRB- starting in 1989 -RRB- , because the upcoming Chevrolet Lumina would replace the sedan for 1990 .
Only the station wagon remained for the 1990 model year , with a new optional 3.1 L V6 engine .
The Celebrity was more spacious than the rear-drive 1978-vintage Malibu that it was intended to replace , with front wheel drive traction and more responsive handling .
Workmanship was good , so these cars bettered the dismal recall record of their X-body parents .
There were driveability problems with the computerized engine control system in 1982 models , and deterioration of the upper engine mount -LRB- also called a dogbone -RRB- caused engine/transaxle vibration .
Chevrolet Celebrities in all models were available with 2 different bolt patterns on the wheel hub .
Additionally , the trans-axles and brakes were different on these two patterns .
The smaller of the bolt pattern was used in the standard models , and used a non-vented disc brake while the larger bolt pattern was to house the heavy duty vented disc brakes .
A misconception is that all Eurosports came with the larger bolt pattern , this was not the case .
Most of the heavy duty braking systems went to base model Chevrolet Celebrities for fleet vehicles and taxis .
In addition to the standard Eurosport package , there was a limited edition Eurosport VR version available , based on the 1986 Eurosport RS concept car .
These very rare Celebrities were only produced for two model years -LRB- 1987 & 1988 -RRB- and came in one of four available monochromatic color schemes : Red , Silver , Black , and White .
Eurosport VR 's were also fitted with special ground effects , and body decals .
1987 VR 's were available as sedans and wagons only , with the treatment expanding to the coupe , for the 1988 model year .
The 1987 models -LRB- often considered the most desirable -RRB- were given a special `` VR only '' interior , which included : Red carpeting , special tri-color door panels , bucket seats with thigh bolsters , and a rear seat cup holder .
1988 VR 's did not receive the same interior treatment , as it turned out to be to costly .
1988 models got the same interior used in non VR Celebrities , with some getting standard trim , while others got upscale CL trim .
All VR conversions were done by Autostyle Cars , right down the street from the Oklahoma City assembly plant , where all VR Celebrities are believed to have originated from .
External links
ChevyCelebrity.com